[
{"content":{"body":"I'd be happy to run the meeting on the 18th while Shu is absent. We can chat about capabilities and the module registry then, working it out together as a group. I really like Mark's thoughts around that. I think Nicolo also has some thoughts.","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1720688068827,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$uGQ6NFs0I8se8byPKMy5vU1Cxx5cyZXiwDDopUNoxhc"},
{"content":{"body":"We probably also should close the loop on the Matrix discussion above about coloring of unsafe functions, and how Atomics/Reflect APIs should work with shared object in unsafe contexts","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1720721975083,"senderName":"Mathieu Hofman","senderId":"@mhofman:matrix.org","id":"$ZoayxLzIoiisWSoyXZhzNkHp23fKN7KIomnuEt4LBnY"}
]