[
{"content":{"body":"for those who participated in the Web Components Virtual F2F meeting this week, it would be good to record some detailed feedback about how the logistics went: What worked well, what didn’t. The info could be useful to other groups who’ll be doing similar “virtual f2f” meetings over the coming months","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1585099574000,"senderName":"MikeSmith","senderId":"MikeSmith@irc"},
{"content":{"body":"I guess https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/wiki/2020-Spring-Virtual-F2F would be good place to write it down","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1585100086000,"senderName":"MikeSmith","senderId":"MikeSmith@irc"},
{"content":{"body":"MikeSmith: thanks for the review, could you review https://github.com/whatwg/meta/pull/165 too?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1585138280000,"senderName":"annevk","senderId":"annevk@irc"},
{"content":{"body":"annevk: yeah was looking at it but had to step away for story time","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1585138575000,"senderName":"MikeSmith","senderId":"MikeSmith@irc"},
{"content":{"body":"back now","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1585138576000,"senderName":"MikeSmith","senderId":"MikeSmith@irc"},
{"content":{"body":"thanks!","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1585139916000,"senderName":"annevk","senderId":"annevk@irc"}
]