2021-02-01

2021-02-02

2021-02-03

2021-02-04
[13:31:50.0600] <sffc>
ðŸ‘‹


2021-02-05
[01:34:39.0651] <ryzokuken>
hey sffc 

[03:00:25.0644] <littledan>
I guess this channel doesn't yet have the access limitations for delegates worked out. Does anyone want to take on that permissioning project?

[03:01:26.0413] <ryzokuken>
littledan: in the last inclusion group meeting, I suggested we try to investigate, to take it off the chair group's plate.

[03:01:40.0252] <ryzokuken>
I think Mark might be onto this, but I'm not sure.

[03:02:12.0397] <littledan>
well, regardless of whether the chair group handles this long-term, someone should set up the ACLs at least for now, just for our testing

[03:02:22.0953] <littledan>
so I'm glad mpcsh is on it

[03:03:53.0562] <ryzokuken>
yes, it's just a bit complicated to figure the starting rules out. Like... I think we're going for custom power levels (since Mark gave Shane a custom level yesterday) but we need to figure out how to restrict people below that level from speaking.

[03:05:11.0184] <ryzokuken>
oh wow, wait it does work

[03:05:24.0276] <ryzokuken>
littledan: I just joined from an alt and I cannot post here.

[03:06:11.0315] <ryzokuken>
so I think this room already has comparable restrictions to the IRC equivalent.

[03:06:45.0601] <ryzokuken>
now there's one nice-to-have. Can we figure out a way to make delegates confer delegate status to their colleagues?

[03:07:06.0262] <ryzokuken>
I guess an "simpler" way to do this could be with a matrix bot that has mod permissions.

[03:07:52.0254] <ryzokuken>
so based on the power level of the requester (10 or above) it could assign power level 10 to whoever they mention.

[03:09:55.0916] <Jack Works>
ðŸ‘€

[03:13:45.0444] <littledan>
Oh, how is the list of acceptable participants established/maintained?

[03:15:30.0094] <ryzokuken>
littledan: what do you mean by acceptable participants?

[03:15:39.0582] <littledan>
delegates

[03:15:57.0698] <ryzokuken>
a bunch of us already have power level 10 or more. We can ask the bot to give level 10 to any of our colleagues too.

[03:16:52.0973] <ryzokuken>
the idea is that while we don't want to give all delegates the power to kick/mute/ban others, we trust them enough to only add folks who are genuinely new delegates

[03:19:22.0171] <littledan>
yeah that sounds great

[03:19:58.0491] <ryzokuken>
the question is, is there a matrix/element way of doing this or should we make a bot to do it? 

[03:20:10.0772] <ryzokuken>
but by all means, that is not a question we need to answer immediately.

[06:59:54.0946] <bradleymeck>
check

[07:00:20.0557] <littledan>
(not sure why we're using a custom level here...)

[07:00:48.0855] <bradleymeck>
/me stares that it could be 39

[07:01:37.0696] <ryzokuken>
littledan: because the two preset levels are "mod" and "admin"

[07:01:48.0364] <ryzokuken>
there's nothing that corresponds to `+v` per-se

[07:01:54.0710] <ryzokuken>
 * there's nothing that corresponds to `+v` per-se

[07:02:26.0042] <ryzokuken>
but thankfully, the protocol allows us to set custom levels so we can roll out our own `+v` (or more).

[07:03:10.0568] <littledan>
I guess if we made all delegates moderators, they would be able to invite others

[07:04:01.0368] <ryzokuken>
I think so, but they would also be able to kick/ban/mute others

[07:06:56.0203] <littledan>
I see

[11:06:41.0703] <mpcsh>
ryzokuken littledan yeah bterlson set up the access restrictions - the `10` power level is `delegate`. anyone with that power level can grant it to anyone else, and you need it to speak

[11:07:39.0597] <ryzokuken>
is there a way to _name_ the level that?

[11:08:43.0394] <ryzokuken>
I guess it would be nicer if it showed up in the interface...

[14:09:12.0531] <mpcsh>
I don't think so, unfortunately


2021-02-06

2021-02-07

2021-02-08

2021-02-09
[12:56:47.0550] <littledan>
smorimoto: Hi, how are you?

[12:57:15.0138] <smorimoto>
littledan: pretty good!


2021-02-10

2021-02-11

2021-02-12

2021-02-13

2021-02-14

2021-02-15

2021-02-16

2021-02-17

2021-02-18

2021-02-19

2021-02-20

2021-02-21

2021-02-22

2021-02-23

2021-02-24

2021-02-25
[09:49:33.0019] <bradleymeck>
EnumerableOwnPropertyNames does a GetOwnProperty to check for existence but then a 2nd lookup for grabbing the property (which may be deleted by GetOwnProperty), this looks like a bug? 

[09:56:18.0893] <bradleymeck>
all the browsers implement it properly...

[10:04:06.0778] <bradleymeck>
shows up in https://gist.github.com/bmeck/ebf5a479bede31a3381a8bbaee2bf9d9 (blows up some stuff if you do it?)


2021-02-26
[06:32:42.0667] <bradleymeck>
for the agenda can I put a comment that people should bike shed before the meeting and I won't during

[06:33:28.0677] <bradleymeck>
last few times collection normalization has come up there are claims of following up offline but they never happened even with some email pings

[09:39:00.0663] <yulia>
oo yey

[09:42:21.0019] <littledan>
*it's happening meme*

[10:00:16.0545] <yulia>
so, jitsi integration is pretty rad

[10:00:29.0582] <ryzokuken>
yeah I'm using it right now

[10:00:38.0312] <yulia>
wow

[10:00:39.0938] <ryzokuken>
it embeds the video inside and everything

[10:00:56.0738] <ryzokuken>
and it minimizes into a tiny little cute frame at the edge when you switch :D

[10:01:05.0670] <Rob Palmer>
this does seem to work really well

[10:03:33.0512] <yulia>
wow 

[10:03:37.0896] <yulia>
this is like the future

[10:03:48.0820] <yulia>
ive been using matrix for ages and had no idea it did that

[10:04:14.0094] <littledan>
how do you join it?

[10:04:23.0635] <yulia>
the conference?

[10:04:32.0496] <Aki>
i have a jitsi box in the corner of my window i can't seem to get rid of

[10:04:52.0480] <bradleymeck>
unpin using ... button

[10:04:54.0275] <Aki>
(tbc this is a client problem, not matrix or jitsi i think)

[10:05:12.0154] <Aki>
refresh got rid of it

[10:05:14.0719] <ryzokuken>
I see it with a green button

[10:05:16.0510] <yulia>
there is an ongoing cconference it looks like

[10:05:19.0909] <ryzokuken>
"join conference"

[10:05:23.0874] <ryzokuken>
yeah

[10:05:38.0454] <Aki>
i can end it

[10:05:45.0120] <Aki>
but idk if anyone's in it

[10:06:02.0310] <yulia>
now we have 2 conferences!

[10:06:04.0028] <ryzokuken>
"now there's two of them" meme

[10:06:10.0259] <yulia>
and this finally solves the hallway tracck

[10:06:13.0479] <littledan>
but I don't see the other one!

[10:06:23.0765] <littledan>
also no one joined mine

[10:06:29.0963] <yulia>
try refresh?

[10:08:58.0935] <bterlson>
the conferences aren't named for the record

[10:09:23.0547] <Aki>
it says "Jitsi Conference Blushing Miniature Toys"

[10:09:32.0283] <bterlson>
I also think anyone can join the jitsi regardless of power level, so we may still want to gate the jitsi links behind a sign in form

[10:30:22.0102] <Rob Palmer>
has anyone figured out how to turn off Matrix font-smoothing on Windows?  The blurriness is too much.

[10:30:33.0797] <Rob Palmer>
i need to see pixels

[10:44:00.0034] <Rob Palmer>
Ok, it seems like font-blurriness on Windows is a known issue, blamed on the underlying web technology... https://github.com/vector-im/element-web/issues/15594

[10:58:19.0535] <ryzokuken>
is it due to bad HiDPI scaling?

[10:58:34.0368] <ryzokuken>
That's what's wrong in my case, but then it happens on all electron apps.

[11:10:47.0030] <Rob Palmer>
VS Code does not appear blurry on the same device. 

[11:12:20.0040] <littledan>
(I just use a pinned Firefox tab and I don't experience the blur)

[11:14:58.0427] <ryzokuken>
Hm, interesting. Definitely not the same issue then. 

[11:16:29.0236] <Rob Palmer>
I am using the official desktop client. Will try Firefox. 

[11:17:38.0772] <Rob Palmer>
When I "end the video conference" banner, I presume that just dismisses it for me only. 

[11:17:52.0038] <ryzokuken>
No

[11:17:59.0211] <ryzokuken>
It ended for me as well, I was just going to ask you to haha

[11:18:23.0474] <ryzokuken>
It was occupying screen space but there's a button to hide widgets so it's not too bad

[11:18:33.0710] <ryzokuken>
The integration is really cool! 

[11:19:03.0909] <Rob Palmer>
Apologies! I will not do it again. 

[11:19:36.0505] <ryzokuken>
No no, I meant it in a good way! Thanks for ending the meeting! 

[11:19:54.0790] <ryzokuken>
I think only the person who started it can end it? Not 100% sure. 

[11:20:40.0926] <ryzokuken>
But maybe it would be nice to automatically end when everyone leaves? Not sure. 

[11:22:53.0795] <Rob Palmer>
I feel like offering to close a video call you are not part of, but in which others are active, should at least warrant a confirmation dialog to check you understand you are breaking up someone else's party. 

[11:46:50.0764] <ryzokuken>
Ah, I see. No I wasn't connected to that call. Yeah, this integration needs more work. I'll try to kick off an issue tomorrow. 

[11:54:41.0599] <littledan>
well, you don't _have_ to use the jitsi integration. You can just paste a link to https://meet.jit.si/something and go there

[11:55:30.0152] <littledan>
 * well, you don't _have_ to use the jitsi integration. You can just paste a link to https://meet.jit.si/something and go there


2021-02-27
[17:47:47.0907] <Jack Works>
ðŸ˜‡


2021-02-28
