2021-10-01

2021-10-02
[16:44:57.0483] <bakkot>
Aki: as long as you are doing matrix-y things, can I petition you to change the logs links to https://matrixlogs.bakkot.com/ ? the current logs are kinda garbage


2021-10-04
[15:29:35.0346] <Michael Ficarra>
bakkot: can we host that somewhere that's controlled by the committee instead?

[15:39:34.0902] <bakkot>
Michael Ficarra: It's on github pages

[15:39:53.0522] <bakkot>
do you want push access to the repo, or?

[15:40:24.0486] <bakkot>
but also we relied on a logbot hosted by a non-committee member for the last several years, which was fine

[15:40:38.0602] <bakkot>
so it does not seem particularly pressing to me

[15:41:06.0221] <Michael Ficarra>
I meant the domain, shouldn't it be easy to be something like `tc39.es/matrixlogs` by transferring to the tc39 org?

[15:44:53.0165] <bakkot>
I don't intend it to be just for tc39; it also hosts logs for whatwg, and I will probably add more if people ask for them. and I don't really want to run multiple instances of it

[15:45:13.0687] <bakkot>
so if you want to do the work of setting up and running a separate instance and hosting it there, go for it

[15:45:18.0650] <bakkot>
otherwise I would prefer not to change mine


2021-10-05
[18:58:41.0939] <ljharb>
it'd probably be good to have tc39's be on their own instance under tc39.es


2021-10-06
[07:32:03.0017] <jschoi>
Several Stage 0 proposals have been transferred to the tc39 GitHub organization. Is there a particular policy about this? https://github.com/tc39/proposals#onboarding-existing-proposals doesn‚Äôt talk about Stage 0.

[07:41:46.0463] <ryzokuken>
are internal slots case sensitive?

[07:46:06.0926] <ryzokuken>
https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-object-internal-methods-and-internal-slots doesn't specify that

[07:57:51.0448] <shu>
yeah, treat them as case sensitive

[07:58:01.0159] <shu>
i'd be against every introducing slot names that differ only in casing

[07:58:08.0196] <shu>
but even so just treat them as case sensitive

[08:00:30.0551] <ryzokuken>
I mean more about access. Can I access `[[Foo]]` using `[[foo]]`?

[08:11:24.0610] <Ashley Claymore>
semi-related. is the `[[Description]]` that a Symbol "holds" also an 'internal slot'? The spec seems to say that slots are only on objects, so would it be technically incorrect to say that symbols have an internal slot?

[09:02:16.0519] <shu>
ryzokuken: no, use [[Foo]]

[09:42:19.0358] <shu>
Ashley Claymore: not technically, but conceptually yes

[10:01:31.0475] <Ashley Claymore>
thanks shu  üôÇ

[10:58:30.0344] <shu>
PSA: nobody has signed up for the next incubator call yet. the topic is Proxy performance https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/399

[14:15:52.0018] <ljharb>
> <@jschoi:matrix.org> Several Stage 0 proposals have been transferred to the tc39 GitHub organization. Is there a particular policy about this? https://github.com/tc39/proposals#onboarding-existing-proposals doesn‚Äôt talk about Stage 0.

the policy is that stage 1+ proposals *must* be transferred; stage 0 proposals can be, but for scalability, we should probably only transfer the ones that have been discussed in a plenary

[15:24:30.0814] <rbuckton>
Can the `Contains` spec op be used with a sequence of terminals, or would I need to contain the terminals in a nonterminal to use Contains? For example, would the following be valid spec text?:
```
If _node_ Contains `using const`, ...
```

[15:24:51.0754] <rbuckton>
 * Can the `Contains` spec op be used with a sequence of terminals, or would I need to contain the terminals in a nonterminal to use Contains? For example, would the following be valid spec text?:
```
If _node_ Contains `using const`, ...
```

[15:31:53.0239] <bakkot>
rbuckton: as it is currently written, it cannot. it walks over the children of a parse node one at a time checking if each is an instance of the argument to Contains, which would not work when the thing you are looking for is spread out across multiple children.

[15:32:09.0096] <bakkot>
 * rbuckton: as it is currently written, it cannot. it walks over the children of a parse node one at a time checking if each is an instance of the argument to Contains, which would not work when the thing you are looking for is spread out across multiple children.


2021-10-10
[09:03:57.0802] <TabAtkins>
FYI to CoC people: just sent in a CoC request (in case it gets caught by spam filters like last time)

[10:06:05.0129] <jschoi>
Same: I sent two emails CoC yesterday, in case they‚Äôre caught as spam.


2021-10-11
[08:40:48.0367] <ljharb>
fwiw i got them all.

[09:51:40.0420] <Jory Burson>
Delegates, FYI we have implemented an indefinite block on a "sock-puppet" account. Sock puppet accounts are alternate accounts created by users, typically to get around a block or to create the appearance of more support for a poster's ideas. Creating sock puppet accounts is an example of a negative conflict behaviour that will result in an immediate block. cc TabAtkins ljharb jschoi 

[09:52:40.0323] <Jory Burson>
Thanks for your continued use of the CoC process! Please let me know directly if you have any questions or concerns.


2021-10-13
[10:22:40.0192] <bakkot>
devsnek: for your slides for extending `null`, it would be good to have some some slides with the various edge cases (especially "class which extends a literal `null` and has not had its prototype changed", "class which initially extended some other value but has had its prototype changed to `null`", and "class which initially extended `null` but has had its prototype changed to a non-`null` value")

everyone agrees `extends null` should work, so much of the meat of the discussion is around these edge cases

[10:22:52.0207] <bakkot>
I can write something up if you'd find it helpful

[10:23:40.0460] <bakkot>
also, reminder to the channel that the deadline for advancement eligibility is in two days, and the agenda is currently pretty light

[10:31:27.0966] <jschoi>
If not much else gets added to the agenda, then I will expand my two proposal updates‚Äô timeboxes from ten minutes to thirty minutes each. 

[10:31:49.0409] <jschoi>
* If not much else gets added to the agenda, then I will expand my two proposal updates‚Äô timeboxes from ten minutes to thirty minutes each. 

[11:01:49.0766] <bakkot>
shu: given that the agenda is kind of light, Michael Ficarra and I were thinking it might be a good time for the subclassing discussion

[11:16:40.0444] <bakkot>
jschoi: the spec at https://jschoi.org/21/es-array-async-from/ appears to be ahead of the spec in the proposal

[11:16:46.0921] <bakkot>
I was gonna submit a PR but it's tricky when they're out of sync

[11:36:26.0563] <shu>
bakkot: what's the scope you had in mind?

[11:48:41.0192] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@jschoi:matrix.org> If not much else gets added to the agenda, then I will expand my two proposal updates‚Äô timeboxes from ten minutes to thirty minutes each.

any time box less than 30 minutes is pretty ambitious

[11:50:57.0313] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@shuyuguo:matrix.org> bakkot: what's the scope you had in mind?

tradeoffs of the "minimal core" philosophy where supplementary methods delegate to core methods so that subclasses only need to override the core

[11:51:55.0582] <Michael Ficarra>
recall the question from the Set methods proposal: do helpers like union/intersection/difference touch the set contents themselves or delegate to the add/remove methods

[12:16:12.0156] <jschoi>
> <@bakkot:matrix.org> I was gonna submit a PR but it's tricky when they're out of sync

They should be in sync; I‚Äôm surprised that they were not.
I just updated the spec page to match the repository‚Äôs build. I‚Äôll set up an automatic build on tc39.es sometime.

[12:17:06.0776] <jschoi>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> any time box less than 30 minutes is pretty ambitious

Haha, yeah‚ÄîI was just going to speed through a few update slides then say, ‚ÄúPlease file any questions in a new GitHub issue; thank you!‚Äù

[12:53:28.0965] <bakkot>
> <@jschoi:matrix.org> They should be in sync; I‚Äôm surprised that they were not.
> I just updated the spec page to match the repository‚Äôs build. I‚Äôll set up an automatic build on tc39.es sometime.

unless there's a caching issue or something they appear to still not be in sync - the rendered spec has the TA method, the source in the spec.html file in the repo (which has not been updated in 13 days) does not

[12:55:25.0765] <jschoi>
I‚Äôll look into it, but either way I haven‚Äôt gotten to updating the TypedArray version yet to fulfill #9. 

I‚Äôll work on deploying to GitHub Pages tonight so we can definitely have an up-to-date spec page. 

[12:55:46.0625] <jschoi>
* I‚Äôll look into it, but either way I haven‚Äôt gotten to updating the TypedArray version yet to fulfill #9. 

I‚Äôll work on deploying to GitHub Pages tonight so we can definitely have an up-to-date spec page. 

[13:10:01.0087] <devsnek>
bakkot: updated slides and also rebased the spec text

[13:13:36.0268] <devsnek>
also added a note about how class fields don't currently work

[13:15:01.0268] <devsnek>
 * also added a note about how class fields don't currently work

[16:30:01.0538] <shu>
reminder that nobody has signed up for the next incubator call: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/399

[16:30:17.0184] <shu>
i will cancel it if nobody else signs up by this friday, Oct 15


2021-10-14
[17:39:46.0654] <jschoi>
> <@jschoi:matrix.org> I‚Äôll look into it, but either way I haven‚Äôt gotten to updating the TypedArray version yet to fulfill #9. 
> 
> I‚Äôll work on deploying to GitHub Pages tonight so we can definitely have an up-to-date spec page.

I added an action to proposal-array-from-async that automatically publishes to its gh-pages branch, but it doesn‚Äôt look like the gh-pages files are showing up at https://tc39.es/proposal-array-from-async/. Is there anything else I need to do?

[17:40:21.0510] <jschoi>
Also, I need access to proposal-bigint-math‚Äôs repository to enable GitHub Actions so that it can also publish to its gh-pages branch.

[23:19:11.0074] <ljharb>
> <@jschoi:matrix.org> I added an action to proposal-array-from-async that automatically publishes to its gh-pages branch, but it doesn‚Äôt look like the gh-pages files are showing up at https://tc39.es/proposal-array-from-async/. Is there anything else I need to do?

you need to make sure github pages is enabled in the repo settings

[06:49:00.0104] <jschoi>
Oh yeah, right. Could I get settings access to proposal-array-from-async and to proposal-bigint-math?

[09:47:39.0319] <ljharb>
the chairs would have to do that

[11:06:50.0538] <rbuckton>
> <@jschoi:matrix.org> I added an action to proposal-array-from-async that automatically publishes to its gh-pages branch, but it doesn‚Äôt look like the gh-pages files are showing up at https://tc39.es/proposal-array-from-async/. Is there anything else I need to do?

I have a similar action set up in a few of my proposal repos. 

[12:26:59.0027] <ljharb>
(note that the template repo does it by auto-building the spec and storing it in the default branch, no gh-pages branch at all - there's a bunch of ways to do it)

[15:21:35.0212] <jschoi>
I do need settings access to those two repositories anyway, to change these repos‚Äô homepage metadata from spec pages on my personal websites to tc39.es pages.

[15:22:17.0359] <jschoi>
Aki, bterlson, yulia: Could any chair give me GitHub admin access to proposal-array-from-async and to proposal-bigint-math?

[15:22:31.0077] <jschoi>
 * Aki, bterlson, yulia: Could any chair give me GitHub admin access to proposal-array-from-async and to proposal-bigint-math?


2021-10-15
[01:57:14.0284] <rbuckton>
Anyone around to merge #1058, #1059, #1060, #1061 in https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pulls?

[01:59:02.0035] <rbuckton>
If not, I think I can merge myself

[02:21:51.0402] <rbuckton>
If we are still light on the agenda, there are a few more proposals I intend to split off from https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-regexp-features into individual proposals that I can add as well. I intended to propose them for Stage 1, but did not have the time to make individual repos/slide decks for each feature prior to the agenda deadline. I am aware they could be rejected purely on this basis, but if we have the time to spare I can finishing breaking them down tomorrow and add them to the agenda.

[08:43:55.0534] <ljharb>
They don‚Äôt need to be merged before the deadline, for future reference; merely opening the PR is sufficient.

[12:52:47.0437] <rbuckton>
I pointed this out on GH as well, but the Agenda topic rules are actually unclear on that subject:

[12:54:17.0455] <rbuckton>
The term "pull request" is only used in reference to (1). All other points use the term "added" which, given the distinction for PRs in (1), seems to indicate they must be part of the actual agenda by the deadline. If merely having the PR by the deadline is acceptable, I suggest we change the wording in the agenda topic rules.

[12:55:49.0666] <Rob Palmer>
I'd be happy to clarify the rules to say that raising a PR (that includes the links to the materials) is sufficient. Review/merge time should not count against the submitter given that in all normal circumstances it will get merged within a day. 

[12:56:13.0919] <rbuckton>
I was leaning towards the "added" meaning "merged" interpretation because there's no guarantee that a TC39 member looking at the agenda would be expected to also check the open PRs for other not-yet-merged topics and might miss a topic and be unwilling to advance as a result.

[13:00:54.0376] <rbuckton>
As someone who had a proposal blocked because I'd neglected to hit submit on the PR after publishing the branch for the PR (damn two-step process for proposing a change to a MD file on GitHub), I admit to being a bit more cautious in my interpretation. Yes, its not quite the same thing since branches are significantly less visible than PRs, but still its not something I'd like to repeat.

[13:10:08.0218] <ljharb>
since we've considered a PR sufficient in the past, i pushed up a commit clarifying it

[13:10:31.0077] <ljharb>
if anyone objects we can discuss it during plenary

[13:11:16.0185] <Rob Palmer>
Let's remember to explicitly highlight this in the next plenary. 

[13:14:47.0725] <ljharb>
sounds great! i'll be asleep the first half of each day or i'd be happy to volunteer; please do explicitly mention that i've documented past precedent :-)


2021-10-16
[17:23:24.0788] <rbuckton>
I've added a few late additions (#1065 [merged], #1066 [pending], and #1067 [pending]) to the agenda as I've continued to whittle away at the proposal-regexp-features proposal from last meeting. I'm aware they may be blocked due to the agenda topic rules, but from my calculations it looked like we were light on agenda topics for a 4-day plenary. Even if they don't achieve Stage 1 it is at least worth discussing them individually, though I'm *hoping* that the late addition status won't be a primary blocking concern since I discussed all of these in the last meeting.


2021-10-19
[20:14:50.0937] <Ashley Claymore>
TC39 Calendar event reminder: Record&Tuple Monthly call tomorrow (19th). 6pm utc

[20:16:36.0855] <Ashley Claymore>
* TC39 Calendar event reminder: Record&Tuple Monthly call tomorrow (19th). 6pm UTC

[20:31:54.0927] <Ashley Claymore>
* TC39 Calendar event reminder: Record&Tuple Monthly call today/tomorrow (19th). 6pm UTC


2021-10-24
[09:14:03.0588] <ptomato>
justingrant and I have a heads up for delegates about two changes to the Temporal item in the upcoming plenary:

[09:14:53.0345] <ptomato>
Wanted to give a heads-up about two changes we just pushed for Temporal's slides for next week's plenary:

- Added a [new slide](https://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2021-10/#23) for a fix for a spec bug discovered after the deadline. It will be hard to wait to fix this bug until Dec, so we added it with a "‚åõÔ∏è" mark. if you feel you need more time to review this, don't hesitate to ask for it.

[09:15:21.0716] <ptomato>
- A PR that we thought had everyone's üëçÔ∏è actually needs more feedback. So we moved it from the main slides into a new ["Discussion" section](https://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2021-10/#25) at the end. We added additional context to frame the discussion, and time permitting we'd appreciate committee input.

[09:15:33.0886] <ptomato>
 * - Added a [new slide](https://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2021-10/#23) for a fix for a spec bug discovered after the deadline. It will be hard to wait to fix this bug until Dec, so we added it with a "‚åõÔ∏è" mark. if you feel you need more time to review this, don't hesitate to ask for it.

[11:39:08.0830] <shu>
where is the sign-in form? i don't see it in the reflector thread

[11:39:33.0971] <shu>
Rob Palmer: Aki bterlson ^

[12:48:04.0074] <Rob Palmer>
I'll put it up tomorrow two hours before the meeting. Unless you really need it now? 

[14:44:03.0081] <Surma>
I noticed that I‚Äôm not on the TCQ for tomorrow, but I have a constraint that I can really only attend tomorrow although if push comes to shove, I‚Äôm sure I can move some stuff around. Is that an oversight or should I try and dig up a free spot on some other day? 

[14:44:36.0758] <Surma>
nvm me

[14:44:45.0262] <Surma>
 * I noticed that I‚Äôm not on the TCQ for tomorrow, but I have a constraint that I can really only attend tomorrow although if push comes to shove, I‚Äôm sure I can move some stuff around. Is that an oversight or should I try and dig up a free spot on some other day? ~x~

[14:44:50.0820] <Surma>
 * I noticed that I‚Äôm not on the TCQ for tomorrow, but I have a constraint that I can really only attend tomorrow although if push comes to shove, I‚Äôm sure I can move some stuff around. Is that an oversight or should I try and dig up a free spot on some other day? 

[14:44:58.0362] <Surma>
Didn‚Äôt see the draft schedule ü§¶

[15:57:09.0091] <shu>
Rob Palmer: i'd prefer the link and password now so i can wake up at like, 1:45am instead of 1:30am


2021-10-25
[23:46:49.0052] <Rob Palmer>
The sign-in form is now on the Reflector issue.  Please do not post the link here because this is a public channel.

[23:51:36.0157] <Rob Palmer>
Please could someone try the form to check it's working.

[23:55:06.0263] <ryzokuken>
Rob Palmer: just did

[23:55:29.0590] <legendecas>
I filled out the form and it works

[23:55:40.0172] <ryzokuken>
thanks legendecas!

[01:52:23.0044] <Rob Palmer>
There are 5 of us in the Jitsi call.  We'll kick off in 8 mins!

[01:58:20.0922] <Rob Palmer>
13 people are here - two mins to go!

[02:03:46.0088] <Rob Palmer>
26 people now - and we are go

[02:05:27.0224] <Jack Works>
what is the password of the meeting?

[02:05:38.0374] <Rob Palmer>
use the form on the reflector

[02:05:41.0927] <Rob Palmer>
do not post the password here

[02:05:48.0204] <Jack Works>
oh ok thanks

[02:30:25.0443] <Rob Palmer>
40 people are here now - good turnout for 2am Pacific Time

[02:31:31.0909] <shu>
many folks missing affiliations in the names

[02:33:11.0685] <Aki>
anyone who just shows up as an email address probably has an 8x8 meet account

[02:33:19.0078] <Aki>
which doesn't support display names????

[02:33:39.0053] <bakkot>
Several of the people in the 8x8 don't have full names even

[02:34:07.0076] <Aki>
yeah i see that

[02:35:29.0630] <ryzokuken>
there's literally someone with `test123` on here üòÖ

[02:39:02.0826] <yulia>
Aki: should we give an announcement about that? possible tighten the form so that if the name is not on the form they get booted?

[02:39:20.0610] <Aki>
Yup. that's my plan 

[02:40:44.0106] <ryzokuken>
did we have local-only meetings in 2019?

[02:44:34.0142] <Aki>
we haven't had a local-only meeting in‚Ä¶¬†idek 6 years?

[02:45:28.0693] <ryzokuken>
sounds good, I was just confused because they were mentioned in Istvan's report as "no longer on the table" but I thought they had been so for a while

[02:51:20.0893] <waldemar>
SDO = Standards Development Organization ‚ò∫

[02:52:31.0949] <yulia>
who wants to add SDO (syntax directed operation) to terminology? 
https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/master/terminology.md

[02:52:47.0031] <yulia>
we can add both definitions, i thought "standards development org" at first

[02:54:06.0336] <yulia>
Ashley Claymore volunteered

[03:01:31.0796] <Ashley Claymore>
https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/pull/102/files

[03:01:53.0881] <Ashley Claymore>
Should I add 'standards development org' too?

[03:01:56.0700] <Ashley Claymore>
To avoid confusion

[03:10:02.0126] <yulia>
yeah, i think we use both in the tc39 context

[03:10:19.0795] <yulia>
for example "ecma is an SDO" for that context

[03:13:47.0273] <Ashley Claymore>
added both :)

[03:14:49.0940] <Rob Palmer>
We have 5 people with non-compliant Jitsi display names.  Please can these people rename to use their full name and (affiliation/company)

Waldemar, 393939, feng, Hongjian Yang, ZY

[03:19:18.0090] <Aki>
waldemar: psst (you're still missing the (Google) part

[03:25:25.0542] <leobalter>
I just catching up (was out of electricity here) but I'm happy to see the nominations for the Ecma award. Thanks yulia for coordinating this!

[03:30:33.0331] <bakkot>
Aki: speaking of scheduling stuff, Michael and I would like to defer the subclassing discussion to a later meeting

[03:30:56.0634] <Michael Ficarra>
we've already removed it from the agenda

[03:31:03.0065] <Aki>
no shit! WELL. that changes things.

[03:31:13.0060] <Michael Ficarra>
sorry, we should've given you a heads up

[03:31:25.0844] <Aki>
all good. i'm sure Ron Buckton will appreciate

[03:31:50.0495] <Michael Ficarra>
turns out subclassing builtins is a very complicated topic

[03:32:04.0634] <Aki>
imagine that

[03:32:06.0684] <Aki>
 * imagine that

[03:37:33.0941] <Michael Ficarra>
can we advance the queue so I can add a reply?

[03:38:10.0896] <Aki>
done

