2023-05-02
[09:24:08.0967] <Mathieu Hofman>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> We definitely could have done accessors for fields. It would have certain advantages and disadvantages. I am also very confident that, if we did that, people would have said ‚Äúthis has lots of footguns, look this basic code doesn‚Äôt work as expected‚Äù

enumerability of accessors is likely one of those footguns on the other side.

[09:24:23.0265] <Mathieu Hofman>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> We definitely could have done accessors for fields. It would have certain advantages and disadvantages. I am also very confident that, if we did that, people would have said ‚Äúthis has lots of footguns, look this basic code doesn‚Äôt work as expected‚Äù

 * non-enumerability of accessors is likely one of those footguns on the other side.


2023-05-03
[05:22:11.0137] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Could I get push access to https://github.com/tc39/proposal-json-modules, to "rebase" it on top of the updated import attributes proposal?

[10:05:16.0190] <bakkot>
PSA: deadline for advancement eligibility is in slightly less than two days

[10:05:33.0890] <bakkot>
for the May meeting

[10:05:34.0789] <bakkot>
(also the link to the countdown timer in the agenda is broken)

[10:15:26.0101] <Michael Ficarra>
fixed the link

[12:39:47.0128] <bakkot>
who owns `tc39.es`? did someone mess with the DNS settings recently? looks like the subdomain we were using for PR previews is gone

[12:42:17.0460] <shu>
Registrant	Ecma International


[12:42:21.0385] <shu>
fascinating

[12:42:40.0523] <bakkot>
/facepalm

[12:43:02.0021] <bakkot>
we could and maybe should switch to just using github pages, I guess

[12:43:44.0620] <shu>
also interesting that `.es` has no whois server

[12:43:46.0706] <bakkot>
(which would solve the problem by not being a subdomain, to be clear)

[12:58:10.0517] <nicolo-ribaudo>
The DNS has been recently transferred to Ecma, there is some discussion in #tc39-website:matrix.org

[13:00:24.0200] <shu>
Ecma does not have a good track record of having working technical infrastructure

[13:00:30.0915] <shu>
why... was that done

[13:05:52.0161] <Rob Palmer>
The DNS was metered.  Aki's bill rose dramatically following a DDoS attack.  We asked Ecma to switch to unmetered DNS.

[13:06:09.0830] <Rob Palmer>
s/bill/cheque for US folk

[13:06:56.0659] <bakkot>
I was not aware that it was possible for DNS to be metered

[13:07:01.0350] <Rob Palmer>
 * s/bill/check for US folk

[13:07:16.0357] <Rob Palmer>
AWS have more ways of making money than you may imagine.

[13:09:23.0366] <shu>
wow

[13:09:36.0990] <shu>
i'm learning a lot, all of it unpleasant

[13:18:06.0387] <Aki>
Lol my bill went from 1¬¢/month to‚Ä¶ I haven‚Äôt checked in a minute. It was like $40 last I checked but on its way to $100 if traffic continued.

[13:35:20.0149] <bakkot>
$100 of dns queries is a distressing amount of dns queries

[15:26:06.0080] <Chris de Almeida (OoO until 05-14)>
bakkot: probably my fault. I must've missef a non-AWS A record. just let me know and I can add it

[15:26:16.0647] <Chris de Almeida (OoO until 05-14)>
* bakkot: probably my fault. I must've missed a non-AWS A record. just let me know and I can add it

[15:26:28.0976] <Chris de Almeida (OoO until 05-14)>
* bakkot:  probably my fault. I must've missed a non-AWS A record. just let me know and I can add it

[16:03:48.0054] <ljharb>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> bakkot:  probably my fault. I must've missed a non-AWS A record. just let me know and I can add it

it's the `ci.tc39.es` record, if you still can find the original ones

[16:04:50.0868] <ljharb>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> Could I get push access to https://github.com/tc39/proposal-json-modules, to "rebase" it on top of the updated import attributes proposal?

done

[16:32:14.0111] <Chris de Almeida (OoO until 05-14)>
good to go


2023-05-04
[05:41:50.0218] <dminor>
Rob Palmer: Hi! A colleague from a different team at Mozilla just asked me about attending the upcoming plenary as an observer. Is there any process that needs to be followed for that, or can they just show up?

[05:42:54.0733] <ryzokuken>
I think just notifying on the reflector thread should suffice

[06:47:08.0279] <Rob Palmer>
The July plenary meeting is coming up and it scheduled to be in Bergen, Norway!

- https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/471

Please fill out [the interest survey](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/471) by Wednesday so that we can predict attendance numbers and make a call on whether it will be hybrid or remote-only.

[07:22:24.0602] <littledan>
Do we have an issue tracking the details of the June plenary? I was having trouble finding one.

[08:01:25.0808] <Rob Palmer>
We have [the May plenary](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/470) next.

[15:39:48.0012] <shu>
is there some canonical example somewhere of "promise ticks are observable"?

[15:41:07.0232] <bakkot>
shu: 
```
(async () => {
  for (let i = 0; i < 100; ++i) {
    console.log(i);
    await 0;
  }
})();
// other stuff here
```

[15:41:25.0948] <bakkot>
order in which the `console.log`s fire relative to other effects in other stuff is observable

[15:41:36.0588] <bakkot>
that said engines are wildly inconsistent in a lot of cases so like

[15:41:40.0306] <bakkot>
don't worry too much about it

[15:41:45.0708] <bakkot>
users certainly shouldn't

[15:48:10.0489] <shu>
thanks


2023-05-05
[21:11:16.0451] <Mathieu Hofman>
I certainly hope the number of ticks is not something programs are not sensitive to since we have the faster promise adoption proposal that would likely change that.

[23:58:07.0973] <justingrant>
Are there normally automated Chinese-language spambots commenting in the tc39/proposals repo? I just posted an [issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposals/issues/470) there and got two Chinese-language responses within 4 minutes. General question: what's the normal process for dealing with spam comments in TC39 repos?

[23:59:40.0705] <justingrant>
 * Are there normally spambots commenting in the tc39/proposals repo? I just posted an [issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposals/issues/470) there and got two Chinese-language responses within 4 minutes. General question: what's the normal process for dealing with spam comments in TC39 repos?

[00:21:14.0774] <littledan>
What I have assumed in the past is that everyone with the appropriate permissions can simply delete spam comments without needing special permission (unlike bad behavior, best referred to the code of conduct committee). If they are persistent, you can escalate to the CoC committee or any chair to get a ban out in place.

[08:12:56.0041] <ljharb>
let‚Äôs not delete things since that leaves no record; certainly hide them as spam tho

[15:19:30.0652] <jschoi>
I‚Äôm a delegate of Indiana University but I‚Äôll be leaving in June. I‚Äôm co-champion on several proposals, I‚Äôm interested in continuing to participate in TC39 afterwards ‚Äì e.g., as an invited expert. What should I do to start that process?

[15:19:40.0806] <jschoi>
 * I‚Äôm a delegate of Indiana University but I‚Äôll be leaving in June. I‚Äôm co-champion on several proposals, and I‚Äôm interested in continuing to participate in TC39 afterwards ‚Äì e.g., as an invited expert. What should I do to start that process?

[15:30:09.0987] <ljharb>
jschoi: the https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/delegate-to-invited-expert.md issue template points to https://www.ecma-international.org/invited-expert-form/ for you to fill out - so i think if you fill that out and file an issue that'd kickstart the process?

[15:32:14.0963] <Michael Ficarra>
jschoi: I've been trying to reach you regarding `Array.fromAsync`

[15:32:27.0201] <Michael Ficarra>
I've added a topic to the upcoming plenary's agenda about it

[15:32:28.0384] <Michael Ficarra>
see https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mww3D5CO1uebUYiK7l8O5GLjUR98NJYgeHGxQEgnrNA/edit#slide=id.g23957a99532_0_0


2023-05-06
[17:22:57.0470] <jschoi>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> jschoi: I've been trying to reach you regarding `Array.fromAsync`

My apologies for being lost to contact; I‚Äôve been swamped with internal work over the past months. I will read this issue tomorrow and reply to you there.

[20:06:10.0023] <jschoi>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> jschoi: I've been trying to reach you regarding `Array.fromAsync`

 * My apologies for being lost to contact; I‚Äôve been swamped with internal work over the past months. I will read this issue tomorrow and reply to you privately.


2023-05-07
[12:28:55.0591] <Rob Palmer>
Hey all, a reminder that the Interest Survey for the July plenary in Norway is now up.

It takes 30 seconds to add yourself. Even if you plan to dial in, that information is useful.

Thank you to the 14 people who have already provided their intentions.

https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/471


2023-05-08
[18:59:43.0488] <snek>
anyone gonna be at gamescom?

[11:20:02.0363] <littledan>
Orama is allowed to attend the TC39 plenary next week, right?

[13:21:11.0130] <Michael Ficarra>
littledan: (RE `Array.prototype.group`) I think the answer to "how do we choose web-compatible `Array.prototype` method names?" is obvious but we just don't want to accept it: stop trying to choose good names

[13:22:11.0055] <littledan>
Michael Ficarra: There's something in common with the `group` name as the previous `global` name: people searched for the name and found too many results, so it was too much to look through, and they sort of assumed it was compatible (but without reporting all of that logic to the committee in advance). In the future, if a search yields that sort of result, I think the next step is to choose something else.

[13:22:14.0358] <littledan>
so, I agree

[13:22:16.0769] <Michael Ficarra>
bad/verbose names are much less risky, but we *want* the name to be good, so we take the risks anyway

[13:23:23.0362] <littledan>
I think for Array methods in particular, we should just use things that we can demonstrate to be pretty unique

[13:23:34.0761] <littledan>
Array methods have been found to be uniquely risky unlike anything else

[13:23:43.0514] <Michael Ficarra>
yes, we need an especially high bar for Array prototype method names

[13:24:08.0180] <Michael Ficarra>
evidence of compatibility, not just lack of evidence of incompatibility

[13:24:50.0777] <littledan>
well, I'd like that if someone could provide it, but I'm not sure what such evidence would look like

[13:25:03.0673] <littledan>
what advice would you give to a new delegate who wants to take on the Array grouping project?

[13:25:47.0391] <Michael Ficarra>
a *new* delegate? "don't"

[13:26:09.0840] <littledan>
OK, then, an experienced delegate--what would you tell them to do?

[13:26:14.0839] <Michael Ficarra>
"hi I'm new here, let me try to solve this override mistake for y'all"

[13:27:01.0787] <Michael Ficarra>
if code search can show a name is effectively nonexistent on the web, that would be good evidence

[13:27:20.0568] <Michael Ficarra>
that would probably necessitate a pretty terrible name choice though

[13:27:51.0263] <littledan>
previously people tried GitHub code search and found results which initially appeared to be stronger support than what was ultimately shown

[13:28:12.0802] <littledan>
Let's try to give actionable advice to champions here (or declare bankruptcy on Array methods and just not do them)

[13:28:36.0645] <Michael Ficarra>
if they wanted to straddle the middle, they would have to do something like collect/analyse usage info in a large-ish browser

[13:29:08.0332] <Michael Ficarra>
yeah, GitHub code search should not be considered sufficient, most code is not OSS

[13:29:26.0279] <littledan>
people always say "analyze usage in a browser" but that doesn't really seem to be available in practice

[13:29:44.0031] <littledan>
I dunno if it ended up playing a role in `global` with some kind of work with Edge, but I haven't heard of it being used since

[13:30:07.0982] <littledan>
this is more awkward than adding other kinds of telemetry/usecounters since it's a property that doesn't exist

[13:32:21.0087] <Michael Ficarra>
may be awkward, but I don't see why it couldn't be done (by someone with the authority to ship in said browsers)

[13:32:53.0314] <littledan>
I just don't know how to do it (and I've contributed code which shipped in browsers after stopping working directly for one)

[13:33:11.0072] <littledan>
maybe you see a way to do it that I don't?

[13:34:43.0425] <littledan>
like, it'd be too slow to replace Array.prototype with a Proxy or something

[13:36:17.0025] <Michael Ficarra>
I was thinking a magic property like `document.all` which appeared not there but reported a use counter when assigned/defined

[13:36:23.0023] <Michael Ficarra>
I'm not talking about an existing facility here

[13:37:03.0141] <Michael Ficarra>
`Array.prototype.length` is already magical

[13:37:33.0435] <littledan>
I think property access on `Array.prototype` has to be faster than property access on `document`. And the magic of `length` is baked into a lot of places and difficult to replicate.

[13:38:17.0936] <littledan>
Anyway, if we want to call a pause on Array methods until someone puts in the work to do this very strong dynamic analysis, that's a conclusion we could come to, we should just expect this to take a long time.

[13:40:28.0718] <Michael Ficarra>
I'm personally okay with either approach: raise the bar so we can confidently ship come stage 3, or move to stage 3 with an unknown name, accepting that we may need to unship and retry with a new name an unbounded number of times before moving to stage 4

[13:40:49.0313] <Michael Ficarra>
browser implementors may have a different opinion though

[13:41:18.0906] <littledan>
yeah it'd be nice if we could find some strategy where the champion can be the one doing the work, rather than just implementers. Maybe some kind of search in HTTPArchive?

[13:49:54.0963] <shu>
> people always say "analyze usage in a browser" but that doesn't really seem to be available in practice

most definitely not scalable

[13:50:38.0149] <shu>
> may be awkward, but I don't see why it couldn't be done (by someone with the authority to ship in said browsers)

the "awkwardness" you refer to is really "unacceptably slow and cannot be shipped"

[13:50:45.0180] <shu>
it's not "impossible"

[13:50:54.0915] <shu>
well, it's in practice impossible

[13:51:01.0078] <shu>
but not impossible in the sense that like, we don't know how to code it

[13:52:00.0496] <shu>
a difference between JS engines and this kind of telemetry on other web APIs defined in WebIDL is the performance pressures are probably an order-of-magnitude different

[13:52:23.0797] <shu>
if you could get google and apple and mozilla to stop competing on performance at all then we can talk!

[13:54:59.0266] <shu>
oh and microsoft

[13:55:17.0646] <littledan>
to be clear: we want you to keep competing on performance

[13:58:18.0797] <shu>
yes sorry this is all a bit tongue in cheek. i don't think the current state of things is wrong: the optimal state of a widely used and supported language most likely should not be optimized for ease of changing

[14:38:01.0831] <TabAtkins>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> well, I'd like that if someone could provide it, but I'm not sure what such evidence would look like

Evidence of compatibility is something we get all the time for web-platform features. In Chrome, we add a Use Counter and (usually) wait until it hits the Stable channel, and see what the usage is.

[14:38:31.0881] <TabAtkins>
If it's super low, great. If not, we can dig into exactly what the usage is and see if it's innocent or not, but that does require more manual labor.

[14:39:32.0095] <shu>
what does a use counter look like for assessing compatibility of a new `Array.prototype` method?

[14:39:43.0175] <TabAtkins>
At least, I *presume* Use Counters are plumbed into the JS engine enough to be usable.

[14:39:43.0596] <shu>
i've added use counters mainly to assess the compatibility of removing things

[14:40:05.0622] <shu>
we have plenty of use counters, but they aren't free and some things are much easier to track than others

[14:40:06.0884] <littledan>
Use Counters are definitely plumbed through V8, I just don't know how to efficiently add a counter for this sort of thing

[14:40:10.0294] <TabAtkins>
Whatever c++ gets invoked for expandos, the use counter would monitor, I presume.

[14:40:29.0882] <TabAtkins>
yeah they're not free, but we still have a bajillion of them bc they're useful

[14:40:35.0098] <shu>
alas it is not C++ but like, 10 different places across C++ and generated code (handwritten assembly)

[14:40:47.0848] <shu>
i guarantee you adding a check to Array.prototype object lookups will regress speedometer

[14:40:50.0515] <shu>
and we will back it out

[14:41:14.0571] <TabAtkins>
lol, well a telemetry run on nightly might be enough

[14:41:32.0870] <TabAtkins>
at least to give initial results, which probably would have shown the .group usage was high

[14:43:36.0861] <shu>
i think our performance mental models significantly differ

[14:43:41.0049] <shu>
mainly because you said expandos

[14:47:36.0849] <TabAtkins>
lol

[14:49:30.0198] <TabAtkins>
An attempt to get a given property name from the Array.prototype object.


2023-05-09
[15:18:26.0636] <rbuckton>
> <@shuyuguo:matrix.org> i guarantee you adding a check to Array.prototype object lookups will regress speedometer

Is this done by analyzing the creation of, or transition to, a new map that has an JS_ARRAY_TYPE type, or are you talking about patching actual assignments (i.e., to catch code that may not have moved to the optimizing compiler)?

[15:22:44.0497] <shu>
well, i elided a few thoughts

[15:23:29.0218] <shu>
i don't think it's sufficient to just check if e.g. someone added a new property named `group` to `Array.prototype`, because we know unconditional assignment is unproblematic

[15:24:15.0807] <shu>
so to add a more nuanced check that's a better measure of whether there's a problematic assignment to a particular `Array.prototype` name:

1. i don't know how to write that use counter
2. it's probably spread through enough parts of the code that adding that many branches is slow?

[15:25:25.0388] <shu>
we _could_ probably add a check just to see if someone added a new property named `group` to Array.prototype but i'd need to audit for all the places where we do that

[15:32:10.0529] <bakkot>
the actual problem with `group` was triggered by someone relying on the _absence_ of a property named `group` on array objects, IIRC

[15:32:26.0040] <bakkot>
so you'd need a use counter for lookup, not just assignment

[15:32:30.0766] <shu>
right, that's what i obliquely referred to as "lookup"

[15:32:58.0189] <shu>
i can imagine a use counter "through time" like, if i looked up 'group' then assigned to 'group', then maybe we bump the counter

[15:33:05.0959] <shu>
but there is just no way i can add a branch to every lookup

[15:34:04.0412] <rbuckton>
> <@bakkot:matrix.org> the actual problem with `group` was triggered by someone relying on the _absence_ of a property named `group` on array objects, IIRC

But did they then still assign to it, or just test for its presence and that's it?

[15:34:11.0032] <bakkot>
just test for presence

[15:34:22.0102] <shu>
oh they didn't even assign to it?

[15:34:22.0758] <bakkot>
they were using it as a type discriminant

[15:34:37.0739] <shu>
word

[15:34:39.0824] <shu>
ain't nothing i can do 

[15:36:08.0178] <bakkot>
https://github.com/webcompat/web-bugs/issues/112552#issuecomment-1291374679

[15:36:12.0372] <bakkot>
specifically that case ^

[15:36:13.0742] <bakkot>
there were others

[15:36:38.0198] <bakkot>
that is, there were other cases which were doing other more normal things, which a use counter might have been able to detect

[15:36:50.0081] <bakkot>
but this specific one was doing the type discriminant thing

[15:38:37.0805] <shu>
do you wonder what life would be like if you worked on a language that had just a little bit less baggage

[15:38:42.0086] <shu>
not a lot, maybe just like 10% less

[15:39:38.0227] <rbuckton>
> <@shuyuguo:matrix.org> do you wonder what life would be like if you worked on a language that had just a little bit less baggage

Like, one where the version can change but it doesn't break your code because your code is compiled and linked to a version-specific standard library?

[15:42:38.0491] <shu>
like chris lattner has it figured out man

[15:42:43.0341] <bakkot>
occasionally I stare forlornly across the bay in the direction of rust

[15:42:45.0474] <shu>
make a language, go somewhere else, make another language

[15:44:55.0628] <Andreu Botella>
> <@bakkot:matrix.org> https://github.com/webcompat/web-bugs/issues/112552#issuecomment-1291374679

Wait, so the issue is the method must exist, but old code is relying on it being falsy. This kinda rings a bell. Haven't we solved this problem once before...?

[15:46:06.0326] <bakkot>
whenever I suggest `document.all` as the solution to all our problems people start screaming in horror and also ominous chanting starts up and blood starts leaking from the walls

[15:46:10.0244] <bakkot>
so I've stopped suggesting it

[15:46:48.0519] <Andreu Botella>
The chanting and blood leaks are a bug in our piping infrastructure, there's an issue open years ago

[15:47:03.0545] <shu>
we can simply extend the MOP to include `emulates: val`

[16:25:39.0560] <Rob Palmer>
Hey all, a reminder that the Interest Survey for the July plenary in Norway will close in 24 hours time.

It takes 30 seconds to add yourself. Even if you plan to dial in, that information is useful.

Thank you to the 25 people who have already provided their intentions.

https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/471


2023-05-11
[06:41:23.0621] <Rob Palmer>
The Chairs have decided the July 2023 TC39 plenary will happen in Bergen üéâ

Thank you to the 32 people who filled in the survey.  Full details are on [the Reflector post.](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/473)


2023-05-13
[09:36:43.0084] <ryzokuken.be>
Draft schedule on reflector now

[09:37:07.0066] <ryzokuken.be>
Thanks Luca Casonato and nicolo-ribaudo


2023-05-15
[01:46:46.0434] <eemeli>
What's the "TKTKTK intro" that's occupying the first hour of the schedule? Searching online suggests mainly ASMR videos, which would be a bit weird.

[01:56:13.0646] <nicolo-ribaudo>
It was a placeholder for the various initial reports; I helped ryzokuken preparing the schedule and forgot to replace it üòÖ

[01:56:42.0916] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* It was a placeholder for the various initial reports (secretary, editors, etc); I helped ryzokuken preparing the schedule and forgot to replace it üòÖ

[03:05:25.0630] <littledan>
TC39 starts in around 5 hours, right?

[03:05:39.0501] <littledan>
(Am I calculating correctly?)

[03:09:45.0773] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yep, according to the TC39 calendar 

[04:29:35.0460] <ryzokuken>
oops, sorry, I'll do that now

[04:29:49.0329] <ryzokuken>
but it's supposed to be the opening of the meeting

[05:43:21.0760] <littledan>
Does that 60 minute topic include Samina‚Äôs introduction?

[05:43:29.0723] <ryzokuken>
Yeah

[05:43:56.0643] <pzuraq>
I've had a meeting come up so won't be able to make the first hour or so

[05:44:20.0224] <pzuraq>
don't expect to be presenting then but just in case

[05:45:02.0487] <littledan>
ryzokuken: how do you expect the time to divide up within that segment?

[05:48:31.0748] <ryzokuken>
just updated the hackmd

[05:48:37.0471] <ryzokuken>
apologies again for doing this last minute

[05:50:12.0695] <littledan>
Np thanks 

[08:17:52.0377] <eemeli>
I'm getting an error "Couldn't connect you to the video call" when following the Google Meet sign-in link. Is this just me?

[08:18:30.0905] <Lea Verou>
there are 33 people in the meeting right now

[08:18:31.0381] <Michael Ficarra>
yes, we have 33 people in here

[08:19:04.0637] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Are the slides frozen to the first one? (not that I'm missing much, but...)

[08:20:06.0357] <eemeli>
Got in by trying again. Dunno what was wrong.

[08:22:38.0784] <ljharb>
the first time i connected i heard no audio, i had to drop out and reconnect, definitely something a bit weird

[08:27:43.0720] <littledan>
s/master/authoritative/; s/slave/derived/

[08:27:58.0735] <littledan>
(this also explains it more clearly!)

[08:30:14.0983] <shu>
"we need a solution for pdf generation in 2024" needs to further define "we"

[08:30:17.0568] <ljharb>
i assume we all realize that the graph dropped there because we started hosting it on github then, not because of the pdf

[08:30:35.0819] <shu>
"we" means Ecma, not any TC39 volunteers

[08:30:44.0782] <bakkot>
print-to-pdf is a solution for pdf generation

[08:30:49.0253] <shu>
correct

[08:31:02.0534] <ljharb>
as is ecma providing the budget we've asked for for years for professional typesetters

[08:32:35.0421] <bakkot>
I am happy to believe that this PDF is downloaded more than any other PDF ecma provides but that doesn't actually make it important per se

[08:33:10.0352] <ljharb>
also an earlier slide implied that PDF quality impacts downloads, and that 402's PDF is better, but 402's PDF is a tiny fraction of 262's PDF.

[08:33:17.0436] <eemeli>
It sounds like it may be important to ECMA, but not to TC-39.

[08:33:18.0874] <ljharb>
 * also an earlier slide implied that PDF quality impacts downloads, and that 402's PDF is better, but 402's PDF downloads is a tiny fraction of 262's PDF.

[08:33:24.0082] <Michael Ficarra>
surely, if the PDF was not available, people would use the HTML version instead, right?

[08:33:32.0150] <shu>
eemeli: yes, that's a statement of fact

[08:34:49.0565] <Andreu Botella>
I'm curious which things are missing from print layout in CSS/browsers to be good enough for ECMA

[08:34:59.0072] <bakkot>
glad to hear the json spec is approved for the next 5 years

[08:35:09.0511] <ryzokuken>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> also an earlier slide implied that PDF quality impacts downloads, and that 402's PDF is better, but 402's PDF downloads is a tiny fraction of 262's PDF.

I'm not sure if I'd say that the PDF quality is "better" since what we do is basically print-to-pdf with some tiny CSS tweaks

[08:35:26.0619] <Lea Verou>
it's not just about browsers, there are print formatters that are developed especially for printing (PrinceXML, Antennahouse etc). There are entire books typeset in HTML & CSS using these

[08:35:50.0063] <ljharb>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> I'm not sure if I'd say that the PDF quality is "better" since what we do is basically print-to-pdf with some tiny CSS tweaks

yeah i'm sure it's just that 262 has some content that makes it worse than 402, i was just pointing out the problem with istvan's argument

[08:36:30.0529] <ljharb>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> I'm not sure if I'd say that the PDF quality is "better" since what we do is basically print-to-pdf with some tiny CSS tweaks

 * yeah i'm sure it's just that 262 has some specific content that makes it print worse than 402, i was just pointing out the problem with istvan's argument

[08:36:41.0829] <littledan>
honestly it would be good to have a summary of topics like Istvan's, to understand what the main points are (I think this is usually not clear to the committee)

[08:38:20.0672] <ljharb>
also this kind of seems like it should be its own agenda item, not part of the secretariat's report

[08:38:51.0640] <littledan>
What do you mean, Samina's introduction?

[08:39:10.0558] <littledan>
She did put it on the agenda, and you can blame me if you think she did so in an incorrect way (as I walked her through that process of the agenda edit)

[08:39:45.0025] <littledan>
Do you have any particular questions or concerns for Samina?

[08:42:24.0468] <ljharb>
no no, i meant istvan's PDF concerns

[08:42:31.0826] <ljharb>
samina's topic was on the agenda and is perfectly fine

[08:42:43.0152] <ljharb>
 * no no, i meant istvan's PDF concerns that we'd been discussing in chat

[08:42:55.0338] <ljharb>
 * samina's topic was on the agenda and is perfectly fine, i met her last week and am happy to welcome her

[08:43:11.0867] <bakkot>
I don't want the pdf topic to be its own agenda item because I don't want to spend more time on it

[08:43:31.0030] <ljharb>
i agree, but it seems easier to convey that if it's separated :-)

[08:43:37.0571] <Michael Ficarra>
surprisingly 262 *does* have camel case AO names (though we are working on fixing that)

[08:43:43.0535] <bakkot>
fair

[08:43:46.0151] <littledan>
hehe yeah I think it concerns a small group of people and that group is sort of in touch by an email thread

[08:43:50.0393] <ljharb>
otherwise it'll be snuck into the secretariat's report for another year

[08:44:48.0806] <littledan>
well, Samina is onboarding here; I think we may see different communication styles here over time

[08:44:49.0360] <ljharb>
i'm confused, why were we talking about normative changes in this section

[08:44:52.0827] <littledan>
I'm pretty optimistic

[08:44:59.0982] <ljharb>
this was just a status update, not a consensus item

[08:45:37.0983] <Michael Ficarra>
normative 402 changes are always run by TG1

[08:45:42.0056] <littledan>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> i'm confused, why were we talking about normative changes in this section

This is frequently done in ECMA-402 updates.

[08:45:51.0298] <littledan>
but it'd also be fair to ask for more explanation and discussion

[08:45:51.0302] <ljharb>
that's not my recollection, but ok

[08:46:02.0963] <ljharb>
we don't do that in 262 updates, and i definitely want more explanation than "go look at the PR"

[08:46:04.0341] <littledan>
it's true that it'd be nice to have more proactive support from the committee

[08:46:27.0341] <ljharb>
we have a separate section for "needs consensus"

[08:46:43.0875] <littledan>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> we don't do that in 262 updates, and i definitely want more explanation than "go look at the PR"

the thing is, Ujjwal did explain the change, and also when there have been longer presentations here, they haven't gotten much engagement

[08:46:55.0206] <Michael Ficarra>
yes because TG1 members are expected to be much more familiar with 262 and 402

[08:47:10.0303] <Michael Ficarra>
 * yes because TG1 members are expected to be much more familiar with 262 than 402

[08:48:13.0975] <littledan>
can the code of conduct committee update their membership list?

[08:48:18.0070] <littledan>
(sorry I haven't gotten the queue up yet)

[08:48:22.0389] <ljharb>
it should be up to date

[08:48:40.0669] <littledan>
in what sense? it contains multiple people who are not delegates

[08:49:08.0238] <littledan>
if you have an idea of which 4 people are somewhat active, then shouldn't the list reflect that?

[08:49:26.0409] <ljharb>
everyone on the list is a delegate as far as i'm aware.

[08:49:37.0453] <ljharb>
and we haven't previously evicted people for not attending meetings

[08:51:09.0023] <ljharb>
regarding engagement, it's not that they need to be longer, it's that the agenda didn't include the item, nor any supporting materials, 10 days prior to the meeting, so how could anyone have reviewed it

[08:51:23.0167] <ljharb>
there's lots of reasons normative changes have their own section, and need their own item.

[08:52:06.0506] <ljharb>
 * regarding engagement, it's not that they need to be longer, it's that the agenda didn't include the item, nor any supporting materials, 10 days prior to the meeting, so how could anyone have reviewed it or known they needed to

[08:52:24.0671] <ljharb>
 * regarding engagement on 402 items, it's not that they need to be longer, it's that the agenda didn't include the item, nor any supporting materials, 10 days prior to the meeting, so how could anyone have reviewed it or known they needed to

[08:59:15.0933] <ryzokuken>
ljharb: I understand your concerns but at the same time this is how we've dealt with normative Intl stuff so far

[08:59:43.0066] <ljharb>
i guess i've missed it. but either way the specific items *must* be referenced on the agenda, 10 days in advance, per our policy

[08:59:51.0086] <ljharb>
 * i guess i've missed it. but either way the specific items _must_ be referenced on the agenda, 10 days in advance, per our current policy

[09:00:05.0386] <ryzokuken>
but I'm not against presenting every normative change as a separate item if that's useful

[09:00:36.0303] <ljharb>
i don't personally care if it's one "402 normative changes" item, or separate items, or whatever, i just care that it's called out with supporting materials on the agenda

[09:00:45.0667] <ljharb>
 * i don't personally care if it's one "402 normative changes" item, or separate items, or whatever, i just care that it's called out with supporting materials on the agenda, like every other normative change we approve

[09:00:47.0063] <littledan>
Yes, I agree that normative changes should be posted in advance like that, and for this topic it'd be reasonable to ask for an overflow item if you want to go into more detail

[09:01:00.0207] <ljharb>
 * i don't personally care if it's one "402 normative changes" item, or separate items, or whatever, i just care that it's called out with supporting materials on the agenda, like every other normative change we approve (and it's confusing to me to do it under "status report")

[09:01:11.0497] <ljharb>
i don't, on this specific item, i'm speaking in general

[09:01:15.0665] <ljharb>
 * i don't, on this specific item, i'm speaking about in general

[09:01:34.0177] <ljharb>
 * i don't personally care if it's one "402 normative changes" item, or separate items, or whatever, i just care that it's called out with supporting materials on the agenda, like every other normative change we approve (and it's confusing to me to do it under "status updates")

[09:02:03.0045] <littledan>
omg I don't remember this issue at all

[09:02:13.0194] <littledan>
I mean I don't remember posting it

[09:04:36.0010] <HE Shi-Jun>
It seems the issue mentioned wasm might allow 2**53 bigger Arraybuffer?

[09:06:04.0651] <shu>
like we're not going to have computers in the medium term future with that kind of memory i don't think?

[09:06:48.0711] <bakkot>
yeah but virtual memory

[09:07:05.0711] <littledan>
In general, don't we want to write the summaries collectively?

[09:07:08.0622] <bakkot>
as long as you don't actually try to _use_ all the pages you can still pretend

[09:07:10.0000] <littledan>
like, synchronously in the meeting

[09:07:16.0020] <littledan>
rather than just telling the presenter to write something

[09:07:20.0271] <shu>
ehhh maybe virtual

[09:07:21.0631] <littledan>
that way we can be sure we actually agree on it

[09:08:14.0418] <ryzokuken>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> that way we can be sure we actually agree on it

we can do that, but it could get somewhat time consuming

[09:08:53.0066] <ryzokuken>
but we're not so pressed for time this time around so it shouldn't be a problem I suppose

[09:08:55.0898] <Chris de Almeida>
yes, I think we previously at least paused for a moment till the conclusion was in reasonable shape

[09:09:25.0195] <ryzokuken>
alright then I'd pause a bit for the next items

[09:10:36.0005] <Chris de Almeida>
also allows the person writing the conclusion to participate in the next topic, rather than focused on the conclusion and missing the presentation

[09:11:12.0728] <littledan>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> we can do that, but it could get somewhat time consuming

well, concretely, pausing synchronously is what I had proposed to the committee. In the past, when we *didn't* pause, we just didn't get summaries.

[09:14:59.0960] <Justin Ridgewell>
IMHO, this feels like we're waisting time.

[09:15:38.0842] <Willian Martins>
That is useful to help us report back on our internal meetings.

[09:16:00.0649] <ryzokuken>
I'm with the general idea of summarizing items, but pausing for a long duration feels like a bit much

[09:17:09.0821] <Justin Ridgewell>
What is the point of blocking all other items while we committee a summary?

[09:19:00.0306] <Michael Ficarra>
I prefer doing this async as well

[09:19:03.0565] <littledan>
we can do it more quickly if the presenters are a little more active about it. They can just dictate a quick summary and conclusion at the end of their topic

[09:19:24.0141] <bakkot>
yeah that's my preferred option

[09:19:30.0395] <bakkot>
we did that last meeting IIRC and it was efficient

[09:19:33.0106] <ryzokuken>
I think doing it sync especially for these smaller items is not the best idea

[09:19:41.0770] <ryzokuken>
for instance the last item was 4 minutes by itself

[09:19:50.0343] <ryzokuken>
and we spent over 5 minutes coming up with the summary

[09:19:56.0908] <littledan>
last meeting I wrote many of the summaries. I want to get out of that pattern.

[09:20:15.0891] <littledan>
the champion should just dictate a really quick summary and conclusion at the end of their topic. It should take less than one minute

[09:20:24.0216] <littledan>
If the champion is not able to dictate it, then someone else can write it

[09:20:41.0260] <ryzokuken>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> last meeting I wrote many of the summaries. I want to get out of that pattern.

that's fair, we shouldn't be burdening someone with them, but I think the presenter should just be able to summarize 

[09:20:53.0320] <littledan>
I can keep writing the summaries but I really don't trust that anyone is reviewing them and that concerns me. It risks making the notes biased.

[09:21:04.0933] <littledan>
 * I can keep writing the summaries but I don't know if anyone is reviewing them and that concerns me. It risks making the notes biased.

[09:22:22.0485] <littledan>
heh, I wanted the main discussion points to be just part of the conclusion section but others disagreed hence we have two separate parts

[09:22:42.0279] <Michael Ficarra>
omg I just realised my camera was off that whole time lol, sorry

[09:22:43.0675] <ryzokuken>
littledan: how did you feel about that last one

[09:22:49.0690] <ryzokuken>
where someone just presented the summary

[09:23:00.0436] <ryzokuken>
and we can spend a few seconds to see if anyone wants to add to it

[09:23:00.0929] <littledan>
yeah that was good. There was nothing to write in the summary; we just had a conclusion.

[09:23:19.0667] <littledan>
In the future, I think a Stage 4 summary could list how the proposal meets Stage 4 requirements (e.g., where it's shipping, the fact that there are tests)

[09:23:20.0983] <ryzokuken>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> yeah that was good. There was nothing to write in the summary; we just had a conclusion.

that's true, maybe not a great example

[09:23:24.0347] <littledan>
but that's optional

[09:23:31.0237] <Michael Ficarra>
summary: proposal meets all stage 4 criteria

[09:23:41.0248] <littledan>
anyway Kevin quickly dictating a conclusion is a good case

[09:23:55.0396] <littledan>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> summary: proposal meets all stage 4 criteria

this is quite a bad summary since it leaves out the content; it might as well be omitted

[09:24:16.0080] <Michael Ficarra>
that's what the content was meant to provide evidence for

[09:24:30.0581] <Michael Ficarra>
summary: just take my word for it

[09:25:19.0049] <Michael Ficarra>
I'm looking forward to chatting with Samina about it in Bergen

[09:25:59.0555] <nicolo-ribaudo>
For discussion these short "summary" and "conclusion" are basically the same thing

[09:26:16.0892] <shu>
supporting evidence should be out-of-line

[09:26:23.0671] <shu>
notes aren't adversarial!

[09:26:25.0904] <littledan>
OK yes this is fine

[09:26:36.0829] <shu>
i don't think someone is going to pull a fast one and then accidentally get something to stage 3+

[09:26:44.0297] <littledan>
we're just working on making the notes meaningful

[09:26:50.0430] <littledan>
no one is adversarial about this

[09:27:10.0090] <littledan>
it's fine to just have a conclusion and no summary for this kind of topic

[09:27:19.0295] <littledan>
summaries are more important when we have a big debate and people make important points, IMO

[09:32:42.0838] <Chris de Almeida>
it's contextual -- sometimes the points make sense, sometimes it would be overkill.  we'll get into a better rhythm with it, but just quickly getting it done when it's timely (at the end of the presentation) is the quickest and cleanest way to do it

[09:39:03.0516] <Michael Ficarra>
`toBase64String`/`toHexString`?

[09:39:09.0890] <Michael Ficarra>
seems like a stage 2 t hing

[09:39:17.0938] <Michael Ficarra>
 * seems like a stage 2 thing

