2024-06-01
[20:29:37.0615] <justingrant>
What's the right process to get consensus on it from TG1 in Helsinki for normative PRs to ECMA-402? Do I add it as a standalone agenda item?  As part of a standing agenda item for 402 changes?  Something else? PR is https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/877

This is mostly a "web reality" change that aligns the spec with how V8 and JSC already behave by tightening under-specified parts of the spec. It also adds forward-looking guidance to handle future issues that may crop up with time zone identifiers.

Ideally I would have asked this question yesterday before the deadline, but I mistakenly believed that all TG2-approved PRs would magically make it into the agenda. Oops. Anyway, I'll add this as a late submission. 

[21:33:25.0929] <bakkot>
I believe you still have two hours before the deadline

[21:34:24.0705] <bakkot>
this is a three-day meeting so the deadline is Saturday rather than Friday (but Saturday in Helsinki, so earlier than it would for meetings in PT)

[01:33:37.0254] <sffc>
Yeah, it should be added under "Needs Consensus PRs". ECMA-402 PRs previously got added automatically, but that practice stopped about a year ago. Now we just make an announcement in the monthly TG2 call to remind champions to add their stuff to the TG1 agenda if it needs TG1 consensus.

[16:11:03.0610] <Rob Palmer>
We still have around 3 hours of spare capacity. So please don't let the agenda deadline stop you from adding more items. 


2024-06-02
[17:12:02.0955] <rbuckton>
I'd hoped to bring back extractors and void bindings for Stage 2 this plenary, but only recently had the time to address feedback from last meeting and I want to give Waldemar time to review the changes intended to address his concerns. I may try to add them as late agenda items since they both seemed fairly close to reaching stage 2 at the last meeting (or, at least that was my impression). 

[15:37:32.0946] <justingrant>
> Yeah, it should be added under "Needs Consensus PRs". ECMA-402 PRs previously got added automatically, but that practice stopped about a year ago. Now we just make an announcement in the monthly TG2 call to remind champions to add their stuff to the TG1 agenda if it needs TG1 consensus.

Serves me right for not listening carefully!  üëÇÔ∏è  I just [submitted](https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/1611) a needs-consensus agenda item for that PR.


2024-06-03
[03:19:44.0481] <littledan>
If we seriously have extra time on the agenda, there are a couple wild open discussion topics which might be fun. Emoji-react something if you're interested in them. (Apologies for not raising this before the agenda deadline.)

[03:19:48.0061] <littledan>
Cancellable promises

[03:20:02.0708] <littledan>
Private name declarations outside of classes

[03:34:55.0090] <rbuckton>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> Cancellable promises

Would it make sense to discuss this on https://github.com/tc39/proposal-cancellation? 

[03:37:07.0446] <littledan>
> <@rbuckton:matrix.org> Would it make sense to discuss this on https://github.com/tc39/proposal-cancellation?

oh thanks that gives a lot of helpful references to review. I have been thinking about this area again in the context of AsyncContext, which gives us more options for propagating the cancel token.

[03:37:44.0109] <littledan>
also AbortSignal.any is a very helpful, core capability in this area, which I don't think was there last time we discussed this

[03:40:19.0801] <littledan>
(I guess it basically enables what your previous proposal's `new CancellationTokenSource(linkedTokens?)` does, roughly)

