2024-09-02
[04:22:20.0388] <jkup>
> <@canadahonk:matrix.org> üëã hi folks! as a small intro, I'm Oliver (or `@canadahonk`). you may have seen me around as I actively contribute to WinterCG and make an ahead-of-time JS engine/compiler/etc, [Porffor](https://porffor.dev) (now full-time!). excited to get more into standards and hope to see some of you in Tokyo! (but also happy to chat in dms anytime)

Hey! I saw your talk at Web Engines Hackfest! Very cool, happy you're here!


2024-09-03
[18:57:08.0218] <Jack Works>
I wonder if ecma can provide hotel discounts to delegates for the Japan meeting üëÄ

[21:43:16.0109] <ljharb>
how would it obtain them? i guess it could try to reserve a block


2024-09-04
[22:26:37.0529] <Riki Khorana>
Hi All üëã I'm Riki from Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE), hosting the 104th TC39 Meeting in Tokyo ü§ù

I'm writing to inform you that we have set a HARD DEADLINE for the In-person Registration Form, for logistical reasons.
Please submit the form by **Sunday 22 September 2024 (JST)** in order to reserve your place üòÑ

‚Üì ‚Üì ‚Üì 
https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537
‚Üë ‚Üë ‚Üë

We'd also appreciate it if you can register early (sometime this week) if you already know you're attending, to help us estimate the amount of catering (+ dietary restrictions), seats, and TC39@SIE exclusive souvenirs (‚ùóÔ∏è) needed.

Please feel free to ask me anything via DMs or https://matrix.to/#/!esMMWWzCSbZuzkptYP:matrix.org?via=matrix.org if you had any questions/comments/concerns!

Looking forward to seeing you all at TOKYOOOO üáØüáµ

[22:29:49.0979] <Riki Khorana>
 * Hi All üëã I'm Riki from Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE), hosting the 104th Meeting of TC39 in Tokyo ü§ù

I'm writing to inform you that we have set a HARD DEADLINE for the In-person Registration Form, for logistical reasons.
Please submit the form by **Sunday 22 September 2024 (JST)** in order to reserve your place üòÑ

‚Üì ‚Üì ‚Üì
https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537
‚Üë ‚Üë ‚Üë

We'd also appreciate it if you can register early (sometime this week) if you already know you're attending, to help us estimate the amount of catering (+ dietary restrictions), seats, and TC39@SIE exclusive souvenirs (‚ùóÔ∏è) needed.

Please feel free to ask me anything via DMs or https://matrix.to/#/!esMMWWzCSbZuzkptYP:matrix.org?via=matrix.org if you had any questions/comments/concerns!

Looking forward to seeing you all at TOKYOOOO üáØüáµ

[23:24:26.0829] <Jesse>
apropos: is there a matrix channel for in-person attendees?

[23:26:30.0144] <Jesse>
(and do we still have some TC39 trucker hats?)

[00:47:36.0256] <rkirsling>
it's the channel linked in the message above, but it's possible that you may need to be added to it

[01:41:52.0936] <Jesse>
ah, I see -- the channel name shows up for me as a long random ID. I guess Rob is in charge of the invites to that channel?

[03:42:08.0793] <saminahusain>
Yes, we still have TC39 hats and beanies. 

[10:56:16.0677] <Rob Palmer>
Hello all, 

If you are a fan of hats and would like to collect one in-person at the Tokyo meeting, please remember to [sign up soon](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537#issuecomment-2329646368) for in-person attendance.  So far we have at least 17 people attending.

[10:59:36.0853] <ljharb>
(ps that's not just because it's the only standalone hat emoji, it's also because i want a TC39 top hat)

[11:05:47.0473] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I wish there was a subscription for distracted hat-loosers delegates to get one every 6 months

[11:05:58.0728] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* I wish there was a subscription for distracted hat-looser delegates to get one every 6 months

[11:06:16.0612] <snek>
you can steal mine, i never wear hats

[12:41:59.0548] <Eli Grey>
üëã Hi, I'm [Eli](https://dangerous.link/virus.exe)! You may have seen me in your stacktraces, inadvertently breaking your iterator helpers proposal and ossifying misc undefined behaviors. I participate in TG3, contribute to various standards groups, and work on privacy and security tools such as airgap.js (closed source) and Penumbra.js (open source) at Transcend.

I'm looking forward to joining plenary, although I'll only be able to attend remotely this time

[12:44:19.0322] <Eli Grey>
oh sorry I thought matrix had threads

[12:44:48.0123] <Eli Grey>
 * oops, used the wrong button for making a thread

[12:45:08.0284] <Eli Grey>
note: airgap.js is privacy governance engine that lives in a psuedo-Realms Initialization Control polyfill and penumbra is a streaming crypto library

[12:46:53.0857] <bakkot>
just hide that button, the threads UX on element is awful

[12:48:27.0111] <Eli Grey>
I also like to do security research into the products I depend on when I have the time (& appropriate rights/permissions to conduct the research)

[12:58:23.0564] <Eli Grey>
* note: airgap.js is a privacy governance engine that lives in a psuedo-Realms Initialization Control polyfill and penumbra is a streaming crypto library

[13:05:01.0459] <Eli Grey>
 * note: airgap.js is a privacy governance engine plus psuedo-Realms Initialization Control polyfill and penumbra is a streaming crypto library


2024-09-05
[17:43:18.0237] <rkirsling>
omg it's yusukesuzuki

[17:43:26.0079] <rkirsling>
does this mean you're coming to the meeting?!

[08:42:20.0724] <canadahonk>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> I wish there was a subscription for distracted hat-looser delegates to get one every 6 months

they should make an ecma member bonus where you pay more and get merch-

[08:50:15.0350] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'm against anything that would privilege delegates over invited experts :P

[09:21:18.0159] <Eli Grey>
Is it possible to get TC39 swag without going to the plenary in-person? I'm getting hat FOMO üòÖ

[10:12:57.0033] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> I'm against anything that would privilege delegates over invited experts :P

we could always charge invited experts

[10:14:27.0843] <shu>
i think we should just create bootleg merch

[10:14:58.0872] <shu>
art yearns to circumvent intellectual property regimes

[10:24:22.0510] <Eli Grey>
Also, pins/magnets for bags would be very cool

[10:45:44.0968] <canadahonk>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> I'm against anything that would privilege delegates over invited experts :P

<del>I would become a member just for merch</del>

[10:45:54.0134] <canadahonk>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> I'm against anything that would privilege delegates over invited experts :P

 * <del>I would become a member just for merch</del> /s

[11:09:44.0030] <Chris de Almeida>
we may arrange swag for remote participants who help with notes during plenary

[11:36:20.0421] <shu>
but anyway i have moved beyond tc39 merch

[11:36:28.0977] <shu>
i now only wear gas station merch

[11:42:52.0448] <Anthony Bullard>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> we may arrange swag for remote participants who help with notes during plenary

Quite the incentive for attendance and note taking

[11:43:19.0418] <Chris de Almeida>
we can only hope!  üôè

[11:47:25.0480] <shu>
i think you should give out gift cards

[11:47:40.0553] <shu>
or lotto

[11:47:54.0494] <Chris de Almeida>
tell me more about this... lotto

[11:48:49.0934] <Chris de Almeida>
> i think we should just create bootleg merch

who will join my kickstarter for TC39 socks?

[11:57:46.0999] <shu>
they're tickets that you buy, with numbers on them

[11:58:02.0706] <shu>
for some of those numbers, you get money

[11:58:23.0257] <shu>
+EV is diminishingly small but psychologically gambling is awesome

[13:20:26.0178] <ljharb>
i've seen stickers but pins/magnets/patches would be cool

[13:20:44.0947] <nicolo-ribaudo>
What about tatoos

[13:38:56.0934] <Aki>
yall convince the execom and Samina for the budget, i'll arrange it

[14:50:14.0783] <Eli Grey>
speaking of which, is there default ai transcriptions as a fallback when nobody is taking notes?

[14:51:29.0506] <Eli Grey>
 * speaking of which, are there ai transcriptions when nobody is taking notes?

[14:52:11.0613] <Chris de Almeida>
professional transcriptionists are professionally transcribing

[14:52:46.0046] <Chris de Almeida>
people helping with notes are there for attribution and making corrections transcription mistakes in realtime

[14:52:53.0759] <Chris de Almeida>
 * people helping with notes are there for attribution and making corrections to transcription mistakes in realtime

[14:53:10.0125] <Chris de Almeida>
 * professional transcriptionists are professionally transcribing.


2024-09-06
[09:44:23.0854] <TabAtkins>
lotto is a gift card that, mostly, you can't use, so no real difference from a normal gift card


2024-09-09
[15:58:37.0234] <shu>
it's so funny to me that async functions cannot synchronously throw, but async generators can

[16:25:53.0332] <ljharb>
huh, that def seems like a mistake in the design of async gens. was it intentional?


2024-09-10
[17:01:14.0916] <shu>
i think there's no other way, because async generators return a generator object that vends promises, they don't return a promise directly

[17:01:44.0006] <shu>
so, parameter expressions like defaults can cause synchronous errors before the async generator gets a chance to create the generator object to return

[17:02:20.0000] <shu>
whereas async functions always returns a promise, so they can create the promise first thing, _then_ evaluate parameter expressions

[17:07:43.0799] <shu>
 * whereas async functions always return a promise, so they can create the promise first thing, _then_ evaluate parameter expressions

[18:03:12.0616] <ljharb>
ah, so then yeah that makes sense, it's just weird, i guess


2024-09-12
[23:31:33.0449] <yusukesuzuki>
> <@rkirsling:matrix.org> omg it's yusukesuzuki

:) Yeah, I'll go to Tokyo meeting.


[07:43:54.0086] <shu>
ljharb: what're the topics for discussion that needs 60m for https://github.com/tc39/proposal-dataview-get-set-uint8clamped?

[08:03:45.0811] <ljharb>
the same thing we talked about last time - adding the get method, whether as an alias or not

[08:05:13.0934] <ljharb>
* the same thing we talked about last time - adding the get method, whether as an alias or not. obv i hope I‚Äôm grossly overestimating the timebox :-)

[08:05:44.0071] <nicolo-ribaudo>
_consensus by talking until when everybody else is exhausted_

[08:05:56.0039] <nicolo-ribaudo>
 * _consensus by talking until when everybody else is exhausted_

[08:22:16.0678] <shu>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> the same thing we talked about last time - adding the get method, whether as an alias or not. obv i hope I‚Äôm grossly overestimating the timebox :-)

i'm very skeptical there is 60 minutes of productive discussion

[08:22:58.0342] <shu>
i think we should be respectful of scheduled time and go with a good faith estimate

[08:23:06.0335] <shu>
like we could all be reserving 90mins just in case

[08:23:08.0223] <shu>
but we shouldn't

[08:24:54.0663] <ljharb>
it is a good faith estimate.

[08:26:12.0523] <shu>
you just said you're hopeful that you're "grossly overestimating"?

[08:26:28.0695] <ljharb>
hopeful doesn‚Äôt mean that I‚Äôm certain that‚Äôs the case. It‚Äôs just optimism.

[08:27:13.0201] <shu>
okay, i'll retract "good faith", i mean something like not estimating for worst case, but for average case

[08:28:34.0875] <ljharb>
i mean worst case is that we overflow 60m, which I‚Äôm concerned about doing.

[08:29:31.0614] <shu>
then i'll come back to the original question, what are the discussion topics here that'll take that amount of time? is there new info and arguments re: adding the get method?

[08:29:35.0482] <ljharb>
if the chairs need more time, they can reach out to me or whoever else, and ask to reduce timeboxes - I‚Äôm not sure why it‚Äôs a big issue at this point

[08:29:55.0581] <ljharb>
no new info, but i want us to get to a decision this plenary.

[08:30:14.0836] <ljharb>
new info would probably make it a much shorter discussion.

[08:32:43.0160] <shu>
it's *a* issue for me because i want plenary time to be productive

[10:00:04.0895] <bakkot>
I am excited for `emplace` but dminor you may want to consider a larger timebox

[10:00:20.0553] <bakkot>
I do think there's room for 60 minutes of productive discussion on that topic, given the size of the design space

[10:02:57.0181] <bakkot>
personally I like the direction you've proposed; I would call it `getOrInit` and then have a separate `.compute((k, v, isPresent) => newV)` function for doing the insert-or-update pattern (possibly in a follow-on proposal)

[10:03:26.0930] <bakkot>
the fact that `getOrInit` does not require you to create a throwaway object/closure makes it a lot more appealing than the thing currently in the proposal

[11:45:25.0119] <rbuckton>
I might suggest `getOrAdd` and `addOrUpdate`. "init" seems like the wrong term since this isn't initialization, per se. "compute" is also a fairly overloaded term.

[11:47:32.0496] <rbuckton>
 * I might suggest `getOrAdd` (or `getOrInsert`) and `addOrUpdate` (or `setOrUpdate`). "init" seems like the wrong term since this isn't initialization, per se. "compute" is also a fairly overloaded term.

[11:51:15.0208] <rbuckton>
Or, for the insert-or-update pattern, `ensure` is a term I regularly use for functions using this pattern.

[11:51:39.0323] <rbuckton>
 * `ensure` is also a term I regularly use for functions using this pattern.

[12:57:52.0441] <bakkot>
`getOrInsert` works just as well for me, but isn't it initialization? it's taking something which previously didn't exist (a mapping for a specific key) and causing it to exist. 

[12:58:56.0459] <bakkot>
`compute` I was just copying from Java's method of the same name

[13:00:42.0332] <bakkot>
haskell has `alter` which... is basically as generic as possible

[13:09:10.0524] <rbuckton>
> <@bakkot:matrix.org> `getOrInsert` works just as well for me, but isn't it initialization? it's taking something which previously didn't exist (a mapping for a specific key) and causing it to exist.

"initialization" just seems somewhat awkward if you potentially delete the value on the previous line:
```js
if (forceReset) map.delete(key);
return map.getOrInit(key, ...);
```

[13:10:37.0220] <rbuckton>
> <@bakkot:matrix.org> `compute` I was just copying from Java's method of the same name

In Java it's `computeIfAbsent`/`computeIfPresent`. You need the second half of the method name for context.

[13:11:02.0307] <bakkot>
it has the bare `compute` as well https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Map.html#compute-K-java.util.function.BiFunction-

[13:13:37.0801] <rbuckton>
I suppose it does. I still contend it it's a fairly overloaded term.

[13:13:45.0509] <bakkot>
certainly agreed there


2024-09-13
[19:48:07.0489] <ljharb>
i still think "upsert" is the best term, and will be the most familiar to web devs from mysql (and postgres docs reference the term so people will know how to do it, because it's the most familiar term)

[21:31:45.0333] <Riki Khorana>
> <@rikilele:matrix.org> Hi All üëã I'm Riki from Sony Interactive Entertainment (SIE), hosting the 104th TC39 Meeting in Tokyo ü§ù
> 
> I'm writing to inform you that we have set a HARD DEADLINE for the In-person Registration Form, for logistical reasons.
> Please submit the form by **Sunday 22 September 2024 (JST)** in order to reserve your place üòÑ
> 
> ‚Üì ‚Üì ‚Üì 
> https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537
> ‚Üë ‚Üë ‚Üë
> 
> We'd also appreciate it if you can register early (sometime this week) if you already know you're attending, to help us estimate the amount of catering (+ dietary restrictions), seats, and TC39@SIE exclusive souvenirs (‚ùóÔ∏è) needed.
> 
> Please feel free to ask me anything via DMs or https://matrix.to/#/!esMMWWzCSbZuzkptYP:matrix.org?via=matrix.org if you had any questions/comments/concerns!
> 
> Looking forward to seeing you all at TOKYOOOO üáØüáµ

Hey all! A friendly reminder that the registration for in-person attendance at the TC39 @ Sony Interactive Entertainment üáØüáµ meeting is due in a little over a week (Sept. 22 to be exact)!

Please check out the reflector issue on GitHub for info on how to register ‚Üí https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537

Questions are welcome! Please feel free to @ me anytime ü§ù


2024-09-16
[10:36:14.0450] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@bakkot:matrix.org> haskell has `alter` which... is basically as generic as possible

`alter :: (Eq k, Hashable k) => (Maybe v -> Maybe v) -> k -> HashMap k v -> HashMap k v` is crazy, I was not expecting that

[10:38:29.0984] <shu>
another L for the category theorists

[10:47:06.0684] <Michael Ficarra>
I mean it's cool that every `Maybe v -> Maybe v` is an operation that makes sense, but I'd probably just make 4 functions

[10:50:07.0273] <Ashley Claymore>
I assume `Some -> None` deletes the key? Rather than implies no alteration 


2024-09-18
[17:27:55.0938] <rkirsling>
was trying to get this figured out in our Tokyo planning channel but I guess the individuals who would know are not in there:

[17:29:10.0837] <rkirsling>
have hosts at other orgs needed to struggle to get an AV setup realized -- specifically, wrt to ensuring that local and remote audio are adequately integrated?

[17:29:14.0648] <rkirsling>
 * have hosts at other orgs needed to struggle to get an AV setup realized -- specifically, wr ensuring that local and remote audio are adequately integrated?

[17:29:17.0989] <rkirsling>
 * have hosts at other orgs needed to struggle to get an AV setup realized -- specifically, wrt ensuring that local and remote audio are adequately integrated?

[17:36:45.0836] <rkirsling>
basically I had never thought about how a mic'ing setup designed for video conferencing (i.e. a series of fixed-position mics on the tables which all mute/unmute together) is fundamentally different from the individual mic'ing setup that our plenaries depend upon

[17:40:31.0443] <rkirsling>
so our AV people were like, well we could rent individual mics and have them hooked up to one or more local speakers, but it seems super unclear whether there could be a good experience with two totally separated systems for local audio and remote audio

[17:41:08.0473] <rkirsling>
and it's all very frustrating because I didn't expect this to be viewed as so special or to require such a battle

[17:49:48.0067] <Michael Ficarra>
yeah it's surprisingly difficult lol ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

[17:50:17.0544] <Michael Ficarra>
turns out most business meetings aren't UN-style and don't have these requirements

[19:01:05.0010] <Mathieu Hofman>
Audio systems that work well for both local and remote attendees are a rarity and somewhat expensive. Echo cancellation is really hard to get right.

[10:18:14.0753] <shu>
the best experience i remember was the one in Portland that had those UN-style per-seat mics

[10:20:10.0990] <Michael Ficarra>
yep that one was fantastic

[11:54:34.0633] <shu>
does Sony make telepresence robots

[11:55:25.0358] <shu>
the copy on https://www.sony.com/en/SonyInfo/research/projects/mado-project/ is very japanese

[11:56:14.0026] <shu>
„Äå Reality „Äç √ó „Äå Aura „Äç

[15:11:04.0380] <Rob Palmer>
I would love if delegates were represented by real-life robots with an iPad video head.


2024-09-20
[17:07:43.0617] <rkirsling>
it's probably been there forever but I just noticed that Chris de Almeida - üå¥ Returning 09-23 has a strongbad quote as a gh status and I am here for it

[20:25:58.0587] <eemeli>
> <@rkirsling:matrix.org> have hosts at other orgs needed to struggle to get an AV setup realized -- specifically, wrt to ensuring that local and remote audio are adequately integrated?

For Helsinki I ended up buying all of the audio gear (except the cables, those I got from the university), because that was cheaper and more convenient than renting. Total cost was somewhere around EUR 1200. To make that work, I got a mixer board with 12 inputs and separate outputs for the in-room speakers and the sound card of the laptop connected to zoom.

[20:37:48.0450] <rkirsling>
wow

[00:52:33.0990] <Ashley Claymore>
eemeli Now you just need to rent it out

[05:42:43.0907] <eemeli>
I shipped the gear to our Berlin office, where it's thankfully someone else's problem.


2024-09-22
[22:37:47.0266] <Riki Khorana>
Hello from Tokyo, Japan üáØüáµ

This is a final reminder that the deadline for in-person attendance at the 104th Meeting of TC39 hosted by Sony Interactive Entertainment is in < 10 hours ‚è≤Ô∏è 

Please check out the issue below asap if you wish to register!

üëá

https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537

[22:39:22.0388] <Riki Khorana>
I have just sent out a registration confirmation for the 27 of you who have already signed up ‚úâÔ∏è If you **have not** received an email but thought you had registered already, please let me know!


2024-09-23
[17:31:40.0931] <Justin Ridgewell>
How feasible would it be to embed binary strings inside JS?
Something like `const binary = 17‚Äô...binary data...‚Äô`, denoting 17 bytes of non-utf binary data.

[17:31:53.0686] <Justin Ridgewell>
* How feasible would it be to embed binary strings inside JS?
Something like `const binary = 17'...binary data...'`, denoting 17 bytes of non-utf binary data.

[17:32:05.0077] <Justin Ridgewell>
* How feasible would it be to embed binary strings inside JS?
Something like `const binary = 17'...binary data...'`, denoting 17 bytes of non-utf data.

[17:33:50.0637] <Justin Ridgewell>
I think the spec could be easy enough, but the challenge is making sure browsers don‚Äôt run a UTF8 step before letting JS parse.

[18:09:49.0311] <bakkot>
I don't think engines would go for that, no

[18:09:53.0397] <bakkot>
or other tools, for that matter

[18:10:22.0526] <bakkot>
just do `Uint8Array.fromBase64(/*data*/)`; after gzip this should be basically the same size anyway

[20:33:07.0931] <Justin Ridgewell>
I‚Äôm trying to avoid Base64‚Äôs byte increase and the time needed to decode it (10ms+ for each of several stings)

[05:09:32.0474] <bakkot>
I would expect Uint8Array.fromBase64 to be a great deal faster than that.

[05:12:04.0056] <bakkot>
If you have a mac with macOS14+, you can download the latest Safari Tech Preview and try it out there

[07:44:40.0324] <Justin Ridgewell>
The decide is being done in Chrome‚Äôs `data:` URI parser, not JS. Search embeds large images as data URIs for‚Ä¶ reasons, and is looking to improve both response size and time to image ready.

[07:45:00.0953] <Justin Ridgewell>
If we can skip Base64, we get both.

[07:45:24.0281] <Justin Ridgewell>
* The decode is being done in Chrome‚Äôs data: URI parser, not JS. Search embeds large images as data URIs for‚Ä¶ reasons, and is looking to improve both response size and time to image ready.

[07:51:28.0977] <bakkot>
afaict, the base64 parser for data: URIs is called https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:net/base/data_url.cc;l=150;drc=f522344e45882da4c7f7cb1b3a0a7bd747d654bb which means it's https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:third_party/modp_b64/modp_b64.cc;drc=f522344e45882da4c7f7cb1b3a0a7bd747d654bb;l=118 which is not at all optimized

[07:52:16.0166] <bakkot>
I am hoping Chrome will do what Safari did for base64, which is to use https://github.com/simdutf/simdutf, which uses SIMD and should be able to decode at ~ the speed of memory

[07:52:28.0249] <bakkot>
 * I am hoping Chrome will do what Safari did for fromBase64, which is to use https://github.com/simdutf/simdutf, which uses SIMD and should be able to decode at ~ the speed of memory

[07:53:40.0238] <bakkot>
base64 should only very barely affect response size after gzip so I don't think that should matter

[07:57:05.0148] <bakkot>
for loading images you'd need to turn that into a blob and then make a blob url, but I would expect that to be cheap too 

[08:01:26.0789] <bakkot>
also you'd need to do that either way since `data:` URIs can't contain arbitrary bytes anyway

[11:30:04.0024] <Justin Ridgewell>
> which uses SIMD and should be able to decode at ~ the speed of memory 
I‚Äôll see if this is a possibility.

> base64 should only very barely affect response size after gzip so I don't think that should matter
The network bytes themselves look fine (7.4kb brotli q3 vs 7.3kb raw bytes), but they‚Äôre literally worring about the decompressed size and how it affects the resource prescanner and JS parser.

> also you'd need to do that either way since data: URIs can't contain arbitrary bytes anyway
`data:` URIs are feed straight to `img.src = '‚Ä¶‚Äô`, but if we can get raw bytes literal we would create a blob object, get and object id, and feed that to the src.

[12:30:40.0343] <Aki>
Greetings from TPAC. Y'all let me know if you're here or if you want me dropping in on any meetings on behalf of TC39

[15:33:07.0074] <Aki>
why do people keep asking me if we're introducing typescript types did i miss a headline

[15:35:30.0019] <shu>
are they misunderstanding what the types-as-comments proposal does?

[15:40:55.0587] <ljharb>
virtually everyone who talks about the proposal on social media or on the github repo seems to

[15:49:25.0794] <Aki>
ohhhh that would make sense. because when i oversimplify and tell people we're sorta committed to staying out of the way, they seem to get it

[15:49:52.0035] <Aki>
though i always add a big "i can't predict the future" caveat


2024-09-24
[21:28:03.0594] <eemeli>
Aki: For extra fun, you could also point them at the extractors proposal, which'll get us runtime types instead: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-extractors/issues/20

[01:19:49.0985] <rkirsling>
tc39 out of context: "voluntary sacrifices"

[01:20:01.0995] <rkirsling>
 * tc39 out of context: "we may request voluntary sacrifices"

[09:06:14.0575] <TabAtkins>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> virtually everyone who talks about the proposal on social media or on the github repo seems to

Yeah engaging on the repo with almost anyone seems useless, since nobody actually understands what's being proposed. Everyone's just reacting against some idea they have about putting types in.

[12:31:55.0761] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@rkirsling:matrix.org> it's probably been there forever but I just noticed that Chris de Almeida - üå¥ Returning 09-23 has a strongbad quote as a gh status and I am here for it

it has indeed been there forever and you might be the first person to ever notice/mention it, and/or understand the reference.  üèÜÔ∏è


2024-09-25
[17:01:28.0116] <rkirsling>
that's one of the ones that's stuck in my head forever haha

[17:01:42.0525] <rkirsling>
another is "_nine_ times"

[17:02:11.0489] <rkirsling>
* another is "I will do it _nine_ times"

[21:24:52.0711] <ljharb>
i don't think i can quantify how many homestar runner quotes i have burninated into my head forever

[21:24:54.0509] <ljharb>
 * i don't think i can quantify how many homestar runner quotes i have burninated into my head forever tbh

[06:50:02.0482] <kriskowal>
I once visited a mutual friend of @domenic while they were undergrads at caltech and was shown a fire extinguisher that had been labeled in sharpie: rogdort, anti-burninator

[06:56:31.0560] <kriskowal>
Though, notably, we did not know we were mutuals until long after domenic had been working with me on Q promises. Life finds a way

[07:27:16.0452] <Anthony Bullard>
ServiceNow has had in its Chicago office (my home base) a roughly three foot tall drawing of Trogdor on a whiteboard you have to go out of your way to find. But, 5 years on, it still remains.  Even the building janitorial staff respects his power.

[07:27:44.0744] <Anthony Bullard>
It is one of my favorite bits of office culture ever

[12:22:45.0300] <kriskowal>
People seem to universally respect whiteboard art. I drew flowering vines in the margins of an enormous whiteboard at Uber and they definitely burned in and can never be erased. I waited for months for someone, anyone to erase a fantasy map I‚Äôd left on some high value whiteboard real estate, and ultimately had to do it myself.


2024-09-30
[11:59:46.0291] <shu>
is the number of ticks a dynamic `import()` takes host-defined?

[12:01:40.0755] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Only if it has not been imported yet from the same module

[12:01:56.0237] <shu>
cool, thanks

