2024-10-01
[17:49:40.0899] <Mathieu Hofman>
I really hope over time the spec is allowed to change the number of ticks some things take. I believe we did so for async function return already

[21:41:49.0861] <rkirsling>
shu: did you mean to leave this needs-consensus topic just titled by its number on the agenda? ü§î

[21:41:53.0252] <rkirsling>
https://github.com/tc39/agendas/commit/870dd57707700201cc6893d4b7bbb1b133a2e51a

[21:48:52.0350] <ljharb>
yes, that‚Äôs intentional 

[22:31:15.0770] <rkirsling>
these map.emplace slides are so pretty

[22:31:23.0839] <rkirsling>
nice work dminor 

[01:13:35.0007] <rkirsling>
and shu's presentation is totally gonna be a show-stealer, I'm excited for this üòÅ

[13:44:09.0692] <Chris de Almeida>
copypasting Rob's message from the reflector:

[13:44:48.0527] <Chris de Almeida>
The agenda continues to fill with content and is beyond our capacity. There's roughly 20 hours of agenda content and 16 hours of meeting time to fit it in. So we are over budget by about 4 hours. Sometimes we recover an hour or two, but not four.

## Actions

### More Time

Our hosts are happy for us to continue until 5pm each day, so I propose we extend Thursday to finish at 5pm instead of finishing at 4pm.

### Less Content

To everyone that has placed items on the agenda, please consider voluntary actions to mitigate the capacity problem. For example you could:

- Mark your item as low priority by adding a ‚¨áÔ∏è icon to the agenda.
  - This means we will only get to it if time permits.
- Reduce the timebox.
  - You can express the timebox as a range if you wish. The upper limit of which should ideally not be higher than the original request.
- Remove the item entirely if there is no harm deferring it to the next meeting which is at the start of December.

[15:27:17.0123] <Michael Ficarra>
alright I added lower bounds to my items' timeboxes, hope that helps with scheduling


2024-10-05
[17:31:30.0361] <Chris de Almeida>
draft schedule is up:  https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/537#issuecomment-2394818520

[17:42:59.0965] <bakkot>
Rob Palmer: the notes signup link mentions speech-to-google-docs; is that a leftover from before the transcriptionist?

[17:43:37.0702] <bakkot>
I do still have the bot but haven't been running it

[23:37:25.0606] <Michael Ficarra>
you should run it so we can refer to it while editing

[23:37:32.0343] <Michael Ficarra>
I find it very useful

[00:45:04.0981] <Rob Palmer>
I deleted that stale comment


2024-10-06
[20:13:03.0836] <rkirsling>
btw if anybody else didn't get added to the Tokyo 2024 channel, please do speak up!

[22:15:05.0486] <Andreu Botella (üïê JST)>
> <@rkirsling:matrix.org> btw if anybody else didn't get added to the Tokyo 2024 channel, please do speak up!

Could you add me?

[22:53:05.0173] <rkirsling>
done!

[23:13:06.0352] <Ashley Claymore>
Also me please üôè 

[05:08:36.0023] <Anthony Bullard>
Me please (or is this only for in-person attendees?)

