2024-11-01
[10:46:28.0332] <Chris de Almeida>
nicolo-ribaudo: is there a repo yet for `Avoid capturing lexical context in indirect eval` ?

[11:58:18.0151] <Justin Ridgewell>
> <@gibson042:matrix.org> here's a rather stark example:
> ```
> const unfrozen = Array.from({ length: 10000 }, (_, i) => i);
> const frozen = Object.freeze([...unfrozen]);
> fn = arr => arr.slice().concat("FIN");
> let result;
> 
> result = fn(unfrozen); // 10.787 ops/ms
> result = fn(frozen); // 1.427 ops/ms
> ```

A slightly more complex example: https://jsbench.github.io/#7802fbd8f3d46d7fef9d6009e65fd4bd


2024-11-04
[02:26:46.0659] <Marja H√∂ltt√§ (not here, use marja@google.com)>
> <@jridgewell:matrix.org> A slightly more complex example: https://jsbench.github.io/#7802fbd8f3d46d7fef9d6009e65fd4bd

filed https://issues.chromium.org/u/1/issues/376718269 to track that, thanks for the bug report!


2024-11-05
[20:42:39.0602] <Lea Verou>
Pardon my ignorance on this, are there any current proposals on class mixins? This came up in a web components issue

[20:44:44.0940] <Lea Verou>
 * Pardon my ignorance on this, are there any current proposals on class mixins? This came up in a web components issue (around custom attributes)

[23:52:00.0045] <Ashley Claymore>
I thought there were only stage 0 ones, nothing on a later stage afaik
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-mixins

[23:52:51.0762] <Ashley Claymore>
* There's this one: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-mixins

[00:16:10.0643] <Michael Ficarra>
mixins would be harmful IMO

[00:31:56.0034] <Ashley Claymore>
Above slides are from https://github.com/tc39/proposal-first-class-protocols (I assume)

[03:51:06.0927] <ljharb>
+1 https://legacy.reactjs.org/blog/2016/07/13/mixins-considered-harmful.html

[08:07:52.0001] <Michael Ficarra>
mixins: not even once

[08:11:06.0361] <Lea Verou>
Thanks Ashley Claymore ! ljharb haha, I suspected there would be strong opinions, I have some of my own too, might write a blog post at some point

[08:12:04.0034] <Michael Ficarra>
@leaverou:matrix.org share a link if you do

[08:12:48.0336] <Lea Verou>
Will do, though I suspect it will be a while before I get to it. There's a backlog of blog posts I want to write :P 

[08:17:25.0316] <ryzokuken>
The JS devroom in FOSDEM has opened their CFP! https://pretalx.fosdem.org/fosdem-2025/cfp

[08:51:06.0744] <Chris de Almeida>
wen protocols

[09:10:07.0413] <Michael Ficarra>
@softwarechris:matrix.org if you can drum up and/or demonstrate community support, I'll put time into it

[09:10:35.0491] <Michael Ficarra>
right now, I'm focussing on more popular proposals

[09:11:04.0418] <Chris de Almeida>
am I not community enough for you?  üò¢

[09:11:17.0288] <Michael Ficarra>
... no

[09:11:20.0179] <Chris de Almeida>
lol

[09:11:48.0030] <littledan>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> right now, I'm focussing on more popular proposals

I'm curious how you judge this

[09:12:06.0244] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> I'm curious how you judge this

coconut vibes, surely

[09:13:25.0708] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> I'm curious how you judge this

things that I see people talking about, that get a lot of attention on social media and from blog posts

[09:14:02.0073] <Michael Ficarra>
I've been working a lot on iterator-related proposals because, aside from me personally finding them useful, they are both viable and always get a lot of positive reactions from the community

[09:14:14.0252] <Michael Ficarra>
not too many things in that overlap

[09:33:28.0366] <ljharb>
i think protocols is something lots of people would be excited about, but it's had no movement in like 6 years

[09:33:54.0832] <ljharb>
people are pretty excited about signals and protocols feel even more broadly applicable than signals

[09:40:38.0845] <Anthony Bullard>
Signals have a lot of energy around them because of the positive impact they are having on nearly all front end frameworks (sans React).  I dont know how many individual application-level problems protocols would solve in the eyes of the bulk of developers.

This is why I discussed the importance of interfacing with the community during the proposal process, doing so will probably increase the quality of the proposal and uncover questions that may not have been asked - and earlier.

[10:16:10.0507] <Chris de Almeida>
well, good thing it's not a zero-sum game

[10:16:45.0160] <Chris de Almeida>
I would submit that it is easy to see the utility of object composition

[10:20:15.0362] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> well, good thing it's not a zero-sum game

browser are getting stingy, especially about things that come with syntax (which the protocols proposal has but does not require), so it kinda is

[10:21:03.0683] <Chris de Almeida>
even if true, we should not presume we are dead in the water

[10:21:40.0459] <Michael Ficarra>
oh I definitely don't think it's dead, I just want to have some momentum behind it before I sink my time into it

[10:21:54.0056] <Chris de Almeida>
sure, I get it

[10:22:05.0618] <Michael Ficarra>
it's a bit of a catch-22, I know

[10:22:15.0583] <Chris de Almeida>
my comment was about signals vs protocols being a false dichotomy 

[10:23:02.0926] <shu>
what is the game

[10:23:18.0587] <shu>
if it's people's time, that _is_ a zero-sum game

[10:25:29.0978] <Chris de Almeida>
to be clear -- it's not as if we are being forced to choose either signals or protocols, and then that's the end of the other proposal.  I regret that the comparison was made, because this is a distraction

[10:26:29.0158] <shu>
anyway Anthony Bullard's point is a good one

[10:26:39.0065] <shu>
argue from tangible benefits and impacts

[10:28:29.0876] <Anthony Bullard>
Chris de Almeida: to be clear, I was just giving my perspective on why the disparity in excitement for the two proposals


2024-11-06
[09:37:13.0702] <ryzokuken>
check out the new survey for the june hybrid plenary organization: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543

[09:38:36.0439] <littledan>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> browser are getting stingy, especially about things that come with syntax (which the protocols proposal has but does not require), so it kinda is

Let's have a conversation about all of the outstanding syntax things under discussion, so we can look at it together and prioritize, if we have this limited budget

[09:39:30.0634] <littledan>
(also I'm not sure whether the "limited budget" thing is for syntax specifically, or whether syntax is distinguished by something which has a potential solution in build tools and other sources of complexity are more difficult to solve for. But still, we should think about syntax all together IMO)

[09:39:42.0697] <littledan>
 * (also I'm not sure whether the "limited budget" thing is for syntax specifically, or whether syntax is distinguished because it is something which has a potential solution in build tools and other sources of complexity are more difficult to solve for. But still, we should think about syntax all together IMO)


2024-11-07
[03:40:26.0508] <Rob Palmer>
Delegates!  Please fill in the June 2025 Plenary Scheduling Survey üöÄüöÄ

- [**Survey Link**](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543)

There are different date possibilities.  We need to know your intentions in order to pick the best time.  Thanks to the 10 people who have already given replies üôè



[11:05:50.0972] <sffc>
On the June Plenary survey, many delegates are posting comments such as "prefer week 22 over 24" and "family vacation on week 22".

Some question:

1. Are you using this language more because this specific situation warrants it (we are comparing and contrasting two choices of weeks), or more because you generally refer to dates in this way?
2. How did you compute the week numbers?
3. Do you ever use language such as "Wednesday, Week 22 or 2025" as a drop-in replacement for "May 28, 2025"?

I am asking this because I am working on a proposal related to week calendars in CLDR, which may influence Intl and MessageFormat. I rarely encounter week numbering in en-US, instead saying things like "first full week of June", so I am asking this as a research question.

ryzokuken Rob Palmer Luca Casonato nicolo-ribaudo 

[11:08:30.0211] <shu>
i don't think i hear "week N" to refer to absolute dates in a year in american english

[11:09:10.0650] <shu>
i think i only hear it in "weeks elapsed from some other event" contexts, like "week 5 of the lockdown"

[11:10:03.0373] <shu>
(i mean first of all, who would know when week 22 is? are there cultures that just know this in the way we know when May is?"

[11:10:08.0516] <sffc>
 * On the June Plenary survey, many delegates are posting comments such as "prefer week 22 over 24" and "family vacation on week 22".

Some question:

1. Are you using this language more because this specific situation warrants it (we are comparing and contrasting two choices of weeks), or more because you generally refer to dates in this way?
2. How did you compute the week numbers?
3. Do you ever use language such as "Wednesday, Week 22 of 2025" as a drop-in replacement for "May 28, 2025"?

I am asking this because I am working on a proposal related to week calendars in CLDR, which may influence Intl and MessageFormat. I rarely encounter week numbering in en-US, instead saying things like "first full week of June", so I am asking this as a research question.

ryzokuken Rob Palmer Luca Casonato nicolo-ribaudo

[11:10:09.0982] <shu>
 * (i mean first of all, who would know when week 22 is? are there cultures that just know this in the way we know when May is?)

[11:14:07.0550] <Chris de Almeida>
2. presumably is ISO 8601 week date, but I am not one of the respondents

[11:16:43.0020] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> <@sffc:mozilla.org> On the June Plenary survey, many delegates are posting comments such as "prefer week 22 over 24" and "family vacation on week 22".
> 
> Some question:
> 
> 1. Are you using this language more because this specific situation warrants it (we are comparing and contrasting two choices of weeks), or more because you generally refer to dates in this way?
> 2. How did you compute the week numbers?
> 3. Do you ever use language such as "Wednesday, Week 22 of 2025" as a drop-in replacement for "May 28, 2025"?
> 
> I am asking this because I am working on a proposal related to week calendars in CLDR, which may influence Intl and MessageFormat. I rarely encounter week numbering in en-US, instead saying things like "first full week of June", so I am asking this as a research question.
> 
> ryzokuken Rob Palmer Luca Casonato nicolo-ribaudo

We use it a lot internally at Igalia, and I guess it happened in that survey that Ujjwal wrote it and others started copying

[11:16:59.0153] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I don't know how we define week 1, but it matches Google Calendar's definition

[11:17:12.0461] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* We use it a lot internally at Igalia, and I guess it happened in that survey that Ujjwal wrote it and others started copying

[11:17:23.0068] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* We use it a lot internally at Igalia, and I guess it happened in that survey that Ujjwal wrote it and others started copying

[11:21:34.0443] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* We use it a lot internally at Igalia (e.g. "team meetings are on w47", or "next assembly is on Thursday week 50") and I guess it happened in that survey that Ujjwal wrote it and others started copying

[11:53:37.0357] <Luca Casonato>
It is very common in German - Kalenderwoche 22, or more commonly KW22

[12:04:00.0919] <shu>
i expect nothing less of germans

[12:33:31.0700] <Michael Ficarra>
@sffc:mozilla.org even in en_US, certain industries use calendar week pretty commonly

[12:33:38.0146] <Michael Ficarra>
like timeshares

[12:34:02.0955] <Michael Ficarra>
and I think certain financial industries, but not sure

[12:34:19.0888] <Michael Ficarra>
* @sffc:mozilla.org even in en_US, certain industries use calendar week

[12:39:19.0679] <Marja H√∂ltt√§ (not here, use marja@google.com)>
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_week_date under section "first week" seems to tell how week numbers are determined. (and yea it's very common to use week numbers in various european countries.) to answer the other above questions 1) it's used when referring to whole weeks, like, if you're on vacation the whole week you might say you're on vacation on week 14. 3) no. only when you already brought the week number into the context, you might say "i'm on vacation on week 14 and on wednesday [that week] i'll go swimming", but you'd never say "week 14 wednesday" or something like that.

[14:21:34.0785] <sffc>
OK so one of my main research questions (and I realize that this is not a representative sample) is whether anyone uses something _other than_ the ISO numbering in practice. Most people I know who use week numbers are European, and presumably use the ISO numbers, but Wikipedia and CLDR both document other numbering schemes. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Week#Other_week_numbering_systems

[14:23:15.0785] <sffc>
Apparently in en-US I'm supposed to count weeks based on the first week that contains a Saturday as opposed to the first week that contains a Thursday as in ISO, but I rarely count weeks, so I don't really care which system I use, and since most people I know who count weeks do it in ISO, I most often also use ISO. But again, anecdotal evidence.

[15:07:48.0677] <TabAtkins>
(American) While I don't count weeks either, when I've interacted with week-counting (talking with Europeans), it's always been ISO.


2024-11-10
[05:06:52.0861] <Rob Palmer>
Thanks to the 17 excellent people who have responded to [the Spain meeting survey](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543) so far üëç

Please fill in [***the survey***](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543) by Friday 22 November. It only takes two minutes and will brighten up your day.

[08:18:58.0524] <jakobjingleheimer>
Are we on BlueSky?

[08:23:09.0268] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@jakobjingleheimer:matrix.org> Are we on BlueSky?

https://matrix.to/#/#temporaldeadzone:matrix.org/$FLfyZaayreZXSgDXG-gePV_sRR_rHB4dCz6XkCFIzRE

[08:24:40.0645] <jakobjingleheimer>
What‚Ä¶ is this?

[08:33:13.0491] <ljharb>
a link to another matrix message that links to a tc39 Bluesky starter pack 


2024-11-11
[22:44:56.0429] <jakobjingleheimer>
Ahh. I meant a TC39 account üôÇ

[23:54:35.0188] <Rob Palmer>
Yes. Chris has the TC39 BlueSky account username. 

[12:27:36.0595] <ljharb>
ah! we should get that set up to `@tc39.es`


2024-11-13
[23:12:41.0693] <Justin Ridgewell>
@danielrosenwasser:matrix.org Is the blog not doing the ‚Äúwhat‚Äôs changed since beta‚Äù anymore? It was very helpful so that I don‚Äôt need to re-read everything. https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-7-rc/


2024-11-14
[17:16:00.0187] <guybedford>
**Call for reviewers for the [ESM Source Phase proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-esm-phase-imports/issues/26)** - as we did not yet confirm the list at plenary, we would like to try and confirm our reviewers before the next meeting. Please respond here or DM me to be added to the reviewers list for the proposal.

[21:13:23.0172] <ljharb>
(to clarify; someone isn‚Äôt a reviewer until plenary confirms it, but you can certainly line up folks who‚Äôve already reviewed it)

[01:27:55.0922] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> (to clarify; someone isn‚Äôt a reviewer until plenary confirms it, but you can certainly line up folks who‚Äôve already reviewed it)

Regarding my name there ‚Äî note that I didn't actually review it yet, there have been quite a lot of changes since last time I looked at that spec text üòÖ

[05:44:48.0004] <Rob Palmer>
Thanks to the 25 excellent people who have responded to the Spain meeting [survey](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543) so far üëç

Please fill in [the survey](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543) by Friday 22 November. It only takes two minutes and will lift your spirits.

[09:44:25.0563] <jakobjingleheimer>
if it's supposed to be adjacent to the hackathon, why are none of the dates adjacent to the dates of the hackathon?

[09:45:19.0881] <ryzokuken>
it's adjacent to the web engines hackfest (https://webengineshackfest.org/) (website not yet updated for 2025)

[09:45:33.0735] <ryzokuken>
it's not strictly adjacent because of the weekend 

[09:46:52.0794] <ryzokuken>
but option 2 (28th to 30th May) is the closest with just the weekend between the two

[09:47:36.0553] <jakobjingleheimer>
yeah, WEH is Mon 2 ‚Äì Thu 5 June

then the next option after starts on Tue, 10 June

[09:47:41.0899] <jakobjingleheimer>
 * yeah, WEH is Mon 2 ‚Äì Thu 5 June

then the next option after starts on Tue, 10 June (why not Monday?)

[09:48:18.0644] <littledan>
Seems like unfortunate dates given JSHeroes. What about on the other side?

[09:49:09.0015] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Last year the week after there was jsnation

[09:49:20.0550] <nicolo-ribaudo>
But they didn't publish the dates yet for 2025

[09:49:43.0077] <ryzokuken>
unfortunately it's one of the busiest time with conferences 

[09:49:52.0059] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> But they didn't publish the dates yet for 2025

Oh yes they did, it's June 12th

[09:50:04.0480] <ryzokuken>
it's hard if not impossible to avoid conflicts like there's multiple events every week 

[09:50:10.0914] <littledan>
Huh? Is jsheroes.io not their website? it says May 29-30th 2025

[09:50:25.0780] <ryzokuken>
I think they meant JSNation

[09:50:34.0507] <littledan>
oh

[09:50:40.0204] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yep

[09:50:40.0329] <ryzokuken>
(Europe) apparently they're also in the US now

[09:58:03.0680] <ljharb>
early June is also a rough time for anyone with kids in the us, because school is letting out

[10:07:29.0749] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> early June is also a rough time for anyone with kids in the us, because school is letting out

technically, some of us live in an area with year-round school: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Year-round_school_in_the_United_States

[10:53:09.0165] <Chris de Almeida>
> Anyone can be a reviewer and submit feedback on an in-process addition.

from the process doc.  is this accurate?  can the committee literally choose anyone? or is there an unwritten requirement that they must be on committee

[11:57:20.0606] <jakobjingleheimer>
ljharb: in America. In Europe, they've been out for a couple weeks ;)

But actually doesn't American school get out mid-June?

[13:08:49.0656] <ljharb>
Yes, first or second week usually

[13:50:19.0123] <nicolo-ribaudo>
In some part of Europe! In Italy the last week is either the first or second of June 

[15:33:28.0260] <Ashley Claymore>
In the UK the 6 week summer break doesn't start until late July

[15:57:40.0413] <Michael Ficarra>
> <@aclaymore:matrix.org> In the UK the 6 week summer break doesn't start until late July

ah, so that's why I see so many of you around in August


2024-11-15
[16:03:51.0525] <Ashley Claymore>
I embarrassingly had been assuming the US was roughly the same

[07:39:40.0366] <Chris de Almeida>
ah yes.  because the harvest season.  child labor is legal when it's in the family!  ü´∂

[09:32:14.0356] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Concretely, the proposed change for removing subclasses of (Shared)ArrayBuffer just means that .slice doesn't look at @@species, right?

[09:32:18.0744] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Or does it have other consequences?

[09:34:06.0926] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Oh well, I was overlooking that the change on TypedArray has much more impact

[09:58:12.0785] <mgaudet>
Mostly yes; I have a prototype patch here https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D225879 which also shows the set of test cases in 262 that would fail with that approach. 

If we think that's too strong, I also have a proposed relaxation which could also preserve Type II subclassing https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D227063

I haven't had a chance to return to this (and sort of don't expect to think more on this until January) 


2024-11-19
[08:13:49.0446] <bakkot>
reminder that the deadline for adding items for advancement to the agenda is in (almost exactly) 3 days

[09:18:15.0362] <eemeli>
Is there a reflector issue for the upcoming meeting? I can't find one.

[09:55:29.0899] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@eemeli:mozilla.org> Is there a reflector issue for the upcoming meeting? I can't find one.

https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/545

[09:58:32.0944] <eemeli>
Thank you; I at least track meetings primarily via the reflector, and so found the imminence of the deadline surprising.


2024-11-21
[11:28:57.0973] <Rob Palmer>
One day left! Please fill in [the June 2025 Plenary Scheduling Survey](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543) by Friday 22 November (tomorrow) üöÄüöÄ

- [**Survey Link**](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/543)

There are different date possibilities. We need to know your intentions in order to pick the best time. Thanks to the 29 people who have already given replies üôè


2024-11-22
[11:31:09.0049] <Chris de Almeida>
and the surveys just keep on coming!

Please fill out the [Survey of Interest to Attend the February 2025 TC39 Plenary In-Person](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/546) by Thursday 6 December 2024.



[11:40:39.0167] <TabAtkins>
What is a "TG5 Workshop"?

[11:53:57.0980] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@tabatkins:matrix.org> What is a "TG5 Workshop"?

example: https://github.com/tc39/tg5/blob/main/workshops/2024/104.md

[11:54:30.0749] <TabAtkins>
okay i guess a more relevant question is what is Task Group 5?

[11:55:01.0189] <TabAtkins>
(ecma naming conventions are honestly no better than just assigning guids, this is ridiculous)

[11:55:10.0259] <Michael Ficarra>
https://ecma-international.org/task-groups/tc39-tg5/

[11:56:16.0874] <TabAtkins>
okay, so a JS research workshop, sounds reasonable

[13:56:44.0886] <Mikhail Barash>
> <@tabatkins:matrix.org> okay, so a JS research workshop, sounds reasonable

Yeah, it's a research meeting hosted jointly with a local university. The goal is to establish collaboration with research groups working on JavaScript and/or in the field of PL design, evolution, and implementation. The workshops are half-day events. Previous workshops were held in [Finland](https://github.com/tc39/tg5/blob/main/workshops/2024/102.md) and [Japan](https://github.com/tc39/tg5/blob/main/workshops/2024/104.md).



2024-11-25
[09:26:54.0989] <mgaudet>
ljharb: What's your planned direction for Error.stacks? I'm trying to prep for our agenda review and a lack of slides has me wondering what's changed

[09:27:42.0896] <ljharb>
nothing‚Äôs changed with the proposal. I‚Äôm hoping that the ‚Äúboil the ocean‚Äù requirement won‚Äôt still exist

[09:34:16.0713] <mgaudet>
So reading the notes (I can't find old slides here) it doesn't seem like much has meaningfully changed? Like I'm not saying that it's in good shape, but I'm curious about what you plan on presenting

[09:34:33.0555] <mgaudet>
*It being here "the state of Error stacks" 

[09:36:19.0013] <mgaudet>
We have a real webcompat problem around Errors that I have volunteered to try and look into (https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1886820) and it's definitely related to this and we may need to do something absolutely funky which ends up aligning things 

[09:37:33.0802] <mgaudet>
This actually bakes -more- of the web platform onto the opposite side of what you've got speced now, which is Error.prototype.stack 

[09:50:20.0984] <ljharb>
nothing has changed, yes. the intention of the proposal is to specify the schema/structure, and not the contents

[09:51:40.0716] <ljharb>
i'd love an issue filed that talks more about the compat issue. i'm not that familiar with captureStackTrace since the plan was always to get it removed entirely

[09:59:05.0215] <mgaudet>
Unfortunately that ship may have sailed when WebKit shipped it https://github.com/WebKit/WebKit/commit/997e074bb35ed07b69c9b821141c91dd548e0d02

[10:03:18.0453] <mgaudet>
 Issue opened for you https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-stacks/issues/48


2024-11-26
[05:59:02.0661] <littledan>
it'd be great to standardize this web reality around stacks, e.g., in Annex B, but if TC39 doesn't want to do it, we could do it in WHATWG.

[06:15:50.0742] <dminor>
A gentle reminder that proposals up for advancement to Stage 2, 2.7, 3 or 4 must have their supporting materials added prior to the advancement deadline, or delegates can withhold consensus solely on the basis of missing the deadline.

[11:24:25.0212] <ljharb>
in my case there are no supporting materials :-)

[12:06:21.0051] <littledan>
I'd encourage everyone to put all agenda items and supporting materials out there before the advancement deadline, just to help folks prepare, even if not advancing.

[15:24:43.0952] <shu>
ljharb: there were many blocking concerns last time stacks were discussed, including conflicting ones. without supporting materials, i don't know what you're actually proposing for stage advancement that addressed those concerns

[15:28:53.0831] <ljharb>
> <@shuyuguo:matrix.org> ljharb: there were many blocking concerns last time stacks were discussed, including conflicting ones. without supporting materials, i don't know what you're actually proposing for stage advancement that addressed those concerns

that isn't my recollection; from what I recall the only blocking concern for stage 2 specifically (as opposed to later stages) was the requirement to specify the entire contents of the text as opposed to just the structure (as it currently is). i'm proposing to revisit that discussion with no changes to the proposal and, if concerns still exist, get them freshly documented.

[15:31:00.0301] <shu>
i'm going off https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/main/meetings/2019-03/mar-28.md#error-stacks-for-stage-2:~:text=JHD%3A%20To%20restate,need%20to%20make.

[15:31:09.0425] <shu>
is there a more recent meeting i missed? i might've missed that one too actually


2024-11-27
[16:07:48.0588] <ljharb>
nope, that's the one. that highlighted summary, though, is the "boil the ocean" work that continues to feel like an unreasonable ask, considering the current proposal is a stepping stone to that one.

[16:07:53.0444] <ljharb>
 * nope, that's the one. that highlighted summary, though, is the "boil the ocean" work that continues to feel like an unreasonable ask, considering the current proposal is an iterative stepping stone to that one.

[04:18:27.0533] <Rob Palmer>
Reminder:  Please fill out the [Survey of Interest to Attend the February 2025 TC39 Plenary In-Person](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/546) by Thursday 6 December 2024.

This is in sunny Seattle.  It takes one minute to complete the survey.

[14:14:40.0477] <Michael Ficarra>
is there a reason why squashing is disabled on the agendas repo?

[14:17:34.0374] <nicolo-ribaudo>
If I remember correctly it's something about it breaking the git graph, and ljharb:  prefers to squash locally, push, and merge to do it the right way

[14:17:52.0122] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* If I remember correctly it's something about it breaking the git history, and 
@ljharb:matrix.org:  prefers to squash locally, push, and merge to do it the right way

[14:35:26.0554] <Michael Ficarra>
... it's an agenda repo

[14:35:51.0850] <ljharb>
yep, that‚Äôs why

[14:36:18.0649] <ljharb>
There‚Äôs no urgency to merge agenda PRs tho, I‚Äôll get to them all :-)

[14:37:39.0121] <Michael Ficarra>
okay but the consequence of that is that I'm going to press the rebase button instead and land a commit in the history that doesn't pass CI

[14:37:58.0379] <Michael Ficarra>
I would care more if this was a code repo because it would make bisecting painful

[14:38:09.0733] <Michael Ficarra>
but is this really the better of the two options?

[14:45:57.0717] <bakkot>
counterpoint I would prefer agenda PRs be merged asap so that I am more likely to see them when I click on the agenda

[14:46:12.0371] <bakkot>
 * > There‚Äôs no urgency to merge agenda PRs
counterpoint I would prefer agenda PRs be merged asap so that I am more likely to see them when I click on the agenda

[14:46:17.0694] <bakkot>
 * > There‚Äôs no urgency to merge agenda PRs

counterpoint I would prefer agenda PRs be merged asap so that I am more likely to see them when I click on the agenda

[15:32:46.0406] <ljharb>
if it's adding a topic, that's reasonable. but schedule constraints only matter to chairs, and supporting materials are something you'd be hunting for

[15:33:32.0638] <ljharb>
but also if that was a concern for most people, you wouldn't need a PR either - you can push things directly to the agenda.

[15:34:18.0276] <ljharb>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> okay but the consequence of that is that I'm going to press the rebase button instead and land a commit in the history that doesn't pass CI

CI? it's an agenda repo

[15:34:30.0297] <ljharb>
> <@michaelficarra:matrix.org> okay but the consequence of that is that I'm going to press the rebase button instead and land a commit in the history that doesn't pass CI

 * CI? it's an agenda repo, if it's failing i'll get to that, too

[15:34:32.0210] <Michael Ficarra>
it has CI though lol

[15:34:54.0544] <ljharb>
i mean these are all tradeoffs, we can't all have everything :-)

[15:35:20.0243] <ljharb>
if one wants things merged fast then i'd assume one probably needs to be ok with failing CI, or no CI at all

[15:35:55.0746] <Michael Ficarra>
personally, I would prefer the squashes, regardless of how GitHub mutilates the git history, but since this isn't a code repo, I'm not gonna die on that hill

[15:42:59.0368] <bakkot>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> if it's adding a topic, that's reasonable. but schedule constraints only matter to chairs, and supporting materials are something you'd be hunting for

I don't want to hunt for them

[15:43:03.0141] <bakkot>
I want to just see them on the agenda

[15:43:34.0429] <ljharb>
so you want to rely on someone else noticing the PRs and merging them, since you won't see the PRs? because if you're seeing the PRs then you already know they're there.

[15:43:55.0461] <bakkot>
well, or for people to click the button themselves once it passes CI, yeah

[15:43:57.0131] <bakkot>
I do that sometimes

[15:44:42.0915] <bakkot>
I will send a PR so people watching the agenda repo are notified and then merge it so people checking the agenda manually are notified

