2025-11-03
[14:27:20.0064] <bakkot>
nicolo-ribaudo: re https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1950211, the "Don't call well-known Symbol methods for RegExp on primitive values", I'm having trouble inferring the status from the bug tracker. Did FF ship? Or just ship telemetry? And is there telemetry?

[14:27:40.0138] <bakkot>
Looks like V8 implemented without a flag and will just ship it whenever main makes it up to stable for them

[14:27:52.0235] <bakkot>
same in webkit

[14:28:01.0474] <bakkot>
not sure if this means we should land the PR or wait for FF

[14:34:14.0067] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I don't remember, I'll get an answer in the next days

[15:20:58.0959] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* I don't remember, I'll get you an answer in the next days


2025-11-04
[06:38:54.0687] <dminor>
It looks like we just shipped the telemetry. I think at this point if webkit and v8 are shipping, we should just remove the telemetry and ship the change.
nicolo-ribaudo do you want to make the updates, or would you like me to take it over?

[06:44:47.0645] <bakkot>
I don't know if either of the other browsers are shipping to stable, to be clear

[06:47:08.0460] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> <@dminor:mozilla.org> It looks like we just shipped the telemetry. I think at this point if webkit and v8 are shipping, we should just remove the telemetry and ship the change.
> nicolo-ribaudo do you want to make the updates, or would you like me to take it over?

Mh yeah it looks like I ended up not finishing that patch because somebody was refactoring the same code at the same time ðŸ˜…

I am not able to type for a few weeks, please go ahead :) I'd be curious to see the telemetry data we have so far

[07:12:02.0835] <dminor>
bakkot: do you have links handy for the webkit and v8 changes? It would be helpful for coordinating shipping.

[07:13:36.0272] <bakkot>
Linked from the ecma262 issue iirc, I can dig them up when I'm at a computer next

[07:13:49.0298] <bakkot>
Or the pr rather 

[07:16:42.0512] <dminor>
Got them, thanks!

[09:02:09.0545] <guybedford>
There's an interesting discussion here on native error objects in Wasm - https://github.com/WebAssembly/custom-descriptors/issues/80.

The driving motivation is Wasm GC objects being used as throwable errors, by being able to somehow relate the Wasm GC error object's descriptor to make it a real error object. This discussion comes under the proposal umbrella of turning "opaque" GC objects into real objects with descriptors.

In particular the `Symbol.underlyingError` could be interesting to get feedback for from a TC39 perspective.

[09:10:06.0769] <Michael Ficarra>
@guybedford:matrix.org There's still time to add discussion items to the agenda for the next TC39 meeting.

[09:10:51.0781] <guybedford>
I'm not personally involved in the above discussion, I'm posting here in the hopes more folks can take these discussions on!

[09:15:56.0262] <Michael Ficarra>
my reading of this is that it would only affect debugger behaviour, which 262 does not constrain

[09:16:38.0684] <bakkot>
It is an interesting question how hosts should expose their own well known symbols though

[09:18:03.0749] <Michael Ficarra>
TG4 probably has a lot of the interested parties. This person may want to make a presentation to them. Not sure what TC39 could do about it though.

[10:57:20.0741] <guybedford>
The root problem is basically subclassing Error for Wasm GC objects, which is currently off the table as something in Wasm explicitly.

[10:57:39.0297] <guybedford>
so if non-Error objects might be able to define a symbol or otherwise to get error-level treatment

[11:37:31.0123] <Mathieu Hofman>
Haven't read the thread yet, but why not create an Error at the wasm boundary, with a `cause` being the wasm opaque object ?

[14:27:17.0261] <bakkot>
Wasm GC objects can be passed around to and from JS FFIs. Is the idea that you'd wrap every FFI call which involved a Wasm GC object to inspect the object and determine if you should substitute a wrapper?

[14:27:26.0678] <bakkot>
I think that would work but it's probably prohibitively expensive

[14:27:37.0964] <bakkot>
(possibly I am not understanding the suggestion)


2025-11-05
[18:00:52.0180] <Mathieu Hofman>
are wasm opaque objects exposed directly to JS code? My impression was that there is currently glue code to wrap those. Now of course we could ask the question for when wasm objects are no longer opaque and gain prototypes, and possibly own props. My concern is that I don't want to introduce yet another "kind" of Error that all error aware code out there needs to recognize (not just debuggers). We have Error instances, and I guess we're also getting objects extended with `Error.captureStackTrace`.

[18:03:20.0600] <Mathieu Hofman>
especially now that we have `Error.isError`, I think it'd be a mistake to introduce something that isn't an error but behaves like one. It's already unfortunate enough we have to standardize captureStackTrace

[18:19:01.0275] <guybedford>
Mathieu Hofman: the wasm custom descriptors proposal turns the opaque objects directly into objects with descriptors allowing getters and setters etc.

[18:19:34.0448] <guybedford>
they thus effectively become resource types, backed by a wasm gc managed struct or array

[18:23:15.0327] <guybedford>
I'd have thought the solution though would be to call out to `wrapErr(scalaErr) => Object.assign(new Error(), { gcError: scalaErr })` through to JS when there is an error to have a JS error type wrapping a scala error type instead of the converse, but I haven't thought about it deeply enough to have a strong opinion

[18:32:22.0332] <Mathieu Hofman>
Right, even with custom descriptors support, this is effectively purpose built glue code creating JS objects to expose wasm things. In that case, I would find it natural to create a `new Error()` and define on it a `cause: wasmThrowable` property.


2025-11-10
[11:47:37.0414] <rbuckton>
Would it be possible to get some folks from the runtimes that have implemented Explicit Resource Management to help finish the reviews on the remaining Test262 PRs? I've been trying to get some eyes on these three PRs for a few months, but the Test262 maintainers seem to be spread very thin:
- https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4482
- https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4480
- https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4478



2025-11-11
[18:41:01.0566] <bakkot>
nicolo-ribaudo: thanks for putting together slides for the export-\*-as PR. while we're here, I noticed in https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/ecmascript-language-scripts-and-modules.html#sec-resolveexport step 9.e.iii.1 that it says "Assert: There is more than one \* import that includes the requested name". That should be "\* _export_", surely, yes?

[19:16:06.0464] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yep you are right

[19:57:03.0310] <arai>
I'm testing on SpiderMonkey.  there's some issue with the expectation around how "asyncTest" should interact with "negative".  not yet sure if it's on our side or in the test side

[19:58:41.0470] <arai>
also there are 3 tests that expects behavior before https://github.com/rbuckton/ecma262/pull/14 , for using in switch

[20:03:05.0224] <bakkot>
ljharb: I am confused by https://github.com/tc39/agendas/commit/61962210dd2547d194eae2bb9cdf8669421a4f98; when did this get stage 2.7 and where are the tests for it?

[20:04:18.0749] <rbuckton>
Thanks, I'll take a look tomorrow

[20:21:14.0703] <arai>
added comments to the PRs

[20:23:09.0662] <ljharb>
Oh youâ€™re right, my bad. Iâ€™ll revert that commit. Itâ€™s 2 and Iâ€™m going for 2.7

[20:24:08.0211] <ljharb>
not sure why i got confused there

[09:58:59.0418] <Ashley Claymore>
If anyone wanted to ask questions about Composites ahead of plenary I'll be dialed into the legacy "R&T Monthly" zoom call on the [TC39 events calendar](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/290) that starts in one hour from now (19:00 UTC)

[14:28:37.0062] <rbuckton>
Thanks. These should all be addressed now


2025-11-12
[01:20:39.0089] <nicolo-ribaudo>
ljharb It was MF from my laptop :)


2025-11-16
[17:49:16.0609] <Chris de Almeida>
draft schedule is up!  see Reflector issue for link:  https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/564

[17:56:23.0320] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Day 1 afternoon there are a bunch of stage 4 advancements and my low priority topic. I wonder if we could squeeze some time off the advancements (that tend to be very quick), and replace my low priority topic with a different 30 min one?

I'm very happy to present, but I'm feeling a bit like I'm wasting time by presenting it when there are things currently scheduled to overflow ðŸ˜…

[18:04:26.0957] <Chris de Almeida>
sounds like you are volunteering to move your topic to the bottom of schedule priority.  we can certainly do that 

[18:04:46.0391] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Well it was already marked as low priority in the agenda

[18:04:53.0948] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I mean the one about other module stuff on the web

[18:05:12.0855] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Which is just an informative topic, not something for our specs

[21:48:54.0041] <Christian Ulbrich>
Is https://tcq.app working for anyone? It seems to be _broken on my side of the internet_ 

[21:51:06.0919] <Chris de Almeida>
internal server error  ðŸ˜­

[21:56:30.0700] <Chris de Almeida>
`/summon` bterlson 

[22:18:04.0512] <Christian Ulbrich>
Chris de Almeida: Didn't know you were here in person. :)

[22:29:50.0706] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Can we try with the V2 this time? ðŸ˜…

[22:37:50.0011] <Chris de Almeida>
we just might!  Christian and I are trying to reproduce the bugs we found from using it last time and we can't reproduce...  

[23:49:04.0085] <Rob Palmer>
Brian is also debugging TCQ: Legendary Edition

[23:54:24.0546] <Christian Ulbrich>
Rob Palmer: If you could get him, to give away the stats of his setup (VM cpu cores, ram size), I could reproduce this at least as an approximation. I very very highly assume, that there are various race conditions in his original code (that TCQ reloaded, simply re-uses) - having an environment that is more close to his original, might "solve" the currently reported bugs for TCQ reloaded, which we could not reproduce now.

[02:41:38.0295] <Rob Palmer>
It's hosted on app service D1 plan, 1GB ram, some slice of a vcpu not sure if multicore


2025-11-17
[23:41:50.0160] <Christian Ulbrich>
Rob Palmer: <del>I quadrupled</del> (always wanted use that word) QUAD DAMAGE  the resources for https://staging.tcq-reloaded.com and after some small tests, I will deploy prod too this evening (during the Karaoke night, when I know you are not needing TCQ :D).

[00:50:06.0889] <Justin Ridgewell>
Ashley Claymore: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-string-dedent/issues/75

