2025-07-01
[20:58:12.0154] <rkirsling>
I have definitely never heard anyone say the word milliard or billiard though

[20:59:23.0525] <rkirsling>
so I remain feeling like this is just some long troll being played on Americans

[23:35:05.0082] <Jesse>
upon moving to Germany, I was confronted with the million/milliard/billion distinction fairly early on


2025-07-02
[05:51:38.0499] <Jack Works>
https://github.com/webpack/webpack/pull/16567
webpack merged support for import defer proposal!

[09:11:17.0335] <dminor>
Would someone here have permissions to make mgaudet and I collaborators on https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-capturestacktrace? Neither of us has access to the settings since the transfer to the tc39 org, and I'd like to fix up the deploy of the spec text to gh-pages.

[09:14:08.0533] <Chris de Almeida>
mgaudet has write permission, and now you do as well

[09:14:14.0782] <Chris de Almeida>
* mgaudet already had write permission, and now you do as well

[09:17:45.0633] <dminor>
Thank you, but I'm still not seeing the `settings`, does that require a separate permission?

[09:54:41.0486] <Chris de Almeida>
oh.. yes

[09:55:34.0894] <Chris de Almeida>
try now

[11:13:32.0552] <dminor>
Working now, thank you for the help :)


2025-07-03
[06:04:20.0409] <Michael Ficarra>
congratulations @robpalme:matrix.org! ü•≥

[06:47:23.0512] <Anthony Bullard>
i feel like i missed an announcement

[06:50:22.0882] <saminahusain>
The 129th General Assembly held in Geneva (Switzerland) on 25 June 2025, approved new recognition awards to honour Touradj Ebrahimi, Hyun Kahng, **Robert Palmer** and Michael Saboff for their contributions and services to Ecma.

[06:50:56.0685] <saminahusain>
https://ecma-international.org/ecma-fellow-awards-and-ecma-recognition-awards/#ecma-recognition-award

[06:52:12.0465] <saminahusain>
Please see below the endorsement and nomination citation:

---------------------

Rob Palmer for contributions to TC39

Rob Palmer has been an integral part of the TC39 chair group since 2020, making an outstanding and lasting impact. In plenary sessions, he has kept the agenda running seamlessly, demonstrating exceptional patience and finding balanced solutions amidst heated debates and time constraints‚Äîtruly setting a standard for leadership.

His unwavering support for meeting hosts has significantly eased the pressures of a demanding role, ensuring smooth and efficient proceedings. Beyond the committee, Rob has been a welcoming and approachable representative, actively engaging with the broader community through social media, fostering transparency and inclusivity.

Rob‚Äôs contributions have undeniably strengthened TC39, leaving a positive and lasting mark on the committee.

---------------------


[06:52:58.0205] <saminahusain>
Congratulations from my side and thank you for your contributions.

[06:54:18.0706] <Anthony Bullard>
Well, congratulations to Rob!

[10:38:07.0423] <Rob Palmer>
Thank you all!

[10:39:04.0959] <Rob Palmer>
And congrats to Michael Saboff who is doubly worth the recognition given his contributions to both TC39 and Ecma where he served as ExeCom Chair. 

[13:25:01.0097] <Aki>
Well deserved, both of you

[13:25:30.0524] <Aki>
Can someone point me to the conversation about normatively referencing WebIDL? I'm doing‚Ä¶ research.

[13:31:16.0031] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I think it's most in emails and calls, I'll forward them to you tomorrow 

[13:31:41.0812] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Oh nevermind I was thinking of infra, not webidl

[13:43:29.0450] <Michael Ficarra>
which conversation? the one from plenary?

[13:44:01.0903] <Aki>
I don't know, I saw it referenced at some point in Matrix. If there was one from the last plenary I can go read the notes!

[13:44:21.0428] <Michael Ficarra>
yeah you can see the notes for that

[13:44:27.0238] <Michael Ficarra>
also there's still conversation happening in https://github.com/tc39/proposal-idl/issues

[14:55:45.0496] <Aki>
do any of the TC39 standards from any TG reference anything published by w3c? (normatively or informatively)(or even in the biblio)


2025-07-04
[19:06:34.0220] <Ashley Claymore>
https://github.com/tc39/ecma426/blob/main/spec.emu#L157

[19:07:46.0318] <Ashley Claymore>
Source Map spec references W3C wasm


2025-07-06
[14:06:41.0936] <bakkot>
I hadn't realized that when node started doing automatic typescript type stripping they also exposed that functionality as an API

[14:06:56.0378] <bakkot>
that makes it pretty trivial to strip types when serving files

[14:07:32.0998] <bakkot>
which... I think eats most of the motivation for https://github.com/tc39/proposal-type-annotations ? at least the motivations I was aware of

[14:07:59.0587] <bakkot>
demo https://github.com/bakkot/buildless-ts-webapp


2025-07-07
[09:28:16.0359] <Rob Palmer>
That is a very cool project, bakkot:

It shows how many pieces of the puzzle are coming to allow TS and ESM to be used in a simple way. 

[09:30:02.0612] <ljharb>
it'd be cool to also describe/provide a variant that avoids the speed overhead that takes one of these apps and pre-transpiles it so that it still works

[09:30:21.0592] <Rob Palmer>
On the motivations for type annotations, the Node work demonstrates that runtimes can play a large part in the story of reducing developer friction. Deno/Bun also showed that earlier on. 

[09:31:19.0101] <Rob Palmer>
There are still some remaining gaps, such a browser debugging. Using the console/REPL with TS still isn't as frictionless as using JS. 

[09:32:30.0865] <Rob Palmer>
The other motivation was language coordination. Something Mark raised strongly in Feb 2025 during the post plenary session on type annotations. Monutes are available. 

[09:32:44.0225] <Rob Palmer>
* The other motivation was language coordination. Something Mark raised strongly in Feb 2025 during the post plenary session on type annotations. Minutes are available. 

[09:33:03.0494] <bakkot>
Fair point about language coordination, yeah

[09:33:41.0899] <bakkot>
myself I've always kind of been on the other side of that, because I like it when TS adds good syntax (`satisfies` etc) instead of trying to fit it into a pre-reserved syntax space

[09:34:53.0354] <Rob Palmer>
(Though I see the TS introduction of the new "erasableSyntaxOnly" tsconfig flag + TC39 advancement of the Stage 1 enum proposal as highly positive indications of all sides leaning in to attempts to coordinate already.)

[09:37:05.0424] <bakkot>
I actually have found that debugging ts-blank-space strip'd types is totally frictionless; do you just mean the bit where you can't copy-paste TS code into the repl? I think that would be adequately solved by having Chrome devtools ship swc

[09:48:29.0039] <Rob Palmer>
Yes, I mean copy-pasting into the REPL. And I agree that if we coordinate across the ecosystem to intercept all the places that JS is debugged so they implement these same type-stripping semantics, then from a user's perspective using TS should be pretty much as frictionless as JS.

[09:49:48.0459] <Rob Palmer>
(I.e. Chrome is not the only debugger) 


2025-07-08
[06:55:29.0062] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I wonder if we have a name for documents containing instructions for multiple parties in an ecosystem to coordinate on some shared agreed upon behavior...

[10:20:04.0318] <bakkot>
I definitely do not want typescript to have to go through a standards body to introduce new syntax, that is one of my main goals here


2025-07-11
[10:00:53.0925] <Chris de Almeida>
can someone from google please help me out with a delegate email address?  please DM if so

[10:01:35.0347] <Chris de Almeida>
* can someone from Google or Ecma please help me out with a Google delegate's email address?  please DM if so


2025-07-16
[01:35:29.0967] <Rob Palmer>
The next TC39 plenary is 28th-31st July.

___Reminder:___ The agenda advancement deadline is [July 18th 10:00 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=1440&iso=20250718T18&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline) which is just over two days away.

Please try to share all materials by this time so folk can carry out their pre-plenary reviews.

[10:04:53.0113] <Michael Ficarra>
does anyone mind if I replace GitHub usernames with real names on the agenda?

[10:05:31.0594] <Michael Ficarra>
it's hard enough remembering everyone's name, affiliation, and TLA, I don't want to also have to remember their GitHub usernames

[10:14:00.0113] <Chris de Almeida>
fine to do it for Ruben, but please reach out to `@styfle` before changing theirs -- they don't have their name listed publicly, and they may not want to use their real name on the agenda

[10:14:40.0043] <Chris de Almeida>
cc styfle ‚òùÔ∏è

[10:18:20.0271] <styfle>
I prefer `@styfle` since thats going to be the easiest way to identify me on github, matrix, x, etc

[10:21:09.0842] <Chris de Almeida>
if it's not for privacy reasons, it's preferable to use your real name in these contexts.  no pressure though üôÇ 

[10:21:27.0736] <Chris de Almeida>
* if it's not for privacy reasons, it's preferable and customary to use your real name in these contexts.  no pressure though üôÇ 

[10:21:36.0632] <styfle>
It is for privacy

[10:21:50.0586] <Chris de Almeida>
got it

[10:22:17.0364] <Michael Ficarra>
FYI, you're going to be recorded in the notes, associated with a TLA, and indexed in https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/main/delegates.txt

[10:23:17.0606] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Come on all, a pseudonym is perfectly fine if it's the only way we refer to somebody. I never showed anybody a document proving that Nicol√≤ is my real name. There are multiple reasons to not use the actual name people have in their documents.

It only gets problematic when we refer to somebody as X in half places and Y in the other half

[10:23:44.0133] <Michael Ficarra>
@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org that's exactly the thing I'm worried about though

[10:24:17.0514] <Michael Ficarra>
because in the notes and (presumably) in-person we're going to refer to them as their real name, but we have the agenda listing their GitHub name

[10:25:00.0330] <Chris de Almeida>
we have precedent for both pseudonyms and mononyms.  Ecma needs to know their identity, but we technically do not.  ultimately this is up to the individual to decide, not us

[10:25:52.0569] <Michael Ficarra>
if it was separate for privacy reasons, the best thing would've been to list only the real name on the agenda (and notes, etc), and the public wouldn't be able to associate it with the pseudonym

[10:29:09.0246] <Michael Ficarra>
we have no precedent for using pseudonyms in the notes

[10:29:38.0694] <ptomato>
we certainly do in TG2

[10:30:44.0184] <Chris de Almeida>
we do actually. I will DM

[11:00:17.0404] <Michael Ficarra>
I want to be clear about what I'm asking: for each delegate, we're going to list some name in delegates.txt alongside a TLA, and I would like to refer to the delegate by that name or TLA in other formal contexts, such as the agenda and during plenary. I don't care whether it's their legal name or common name or a pseudonym made just for this purpose, just that it's used consistently. I think the issue here was that we don't yet have an entry in delegates.txt for @styfle:matrix.org and I had assumed that they were going to use the name submitted in the new delegate form. Apologies for jumping the gun here. We can continue the conversation, if needed, once we figure out what's going in delegates.txt.

[11:01:39.0477] <styfle>
I would like to use `@styfle` for public documents

[11:12:52.0683] <Michael Ficarra>
would you make a PR to delegates.txt?

[11:13:07.0084] <Michael Ficarra>
I hope the ordering enforcement handles `@` properly üò∞


2025-07-18
[17:01:03.0397] <styfle>
Well I realized I'm already in `fetch` https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/blob/main/fetch.bs

[17:01:15.0473] <styfle>
So here we go https://github.com/tc39/notes/pull/378

[17:12:50.0506] <bakkot>
reminder that the deadline to add things to the agenda for the coming meeting is in 17 hours

[17:13:07.0875] <bakkot>
currently it's pretty light

[19:36:56.0687] <styfle>
Added slides https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/1913

[22:56:18.0334] <bakkot>
awful lot of Slides TBD items still on the agenda

[22:57:41.0172] <bakkot>
general reminder that proposals looking to advance must link the supporting material by the deadline, in addition to being on the agenda. people need time to review things before the meeting.

[00:03:02.0237] <ljharb>
at least proposals trying to hit stage 2+


2025-07-23
[01:57:16.0619] <naugtur>
Slides for `new Global` https://github.com/endojs/proposal-new-global/tree/main/slides
some further clarifications pending. I'm new here, so any amount of kind feedback on what's worth adding/explaining will be appreciated.

[02:43:41.0640] <bakkot>
naugtur: for new proposals it's best to focus on the problem to be solved, rather than a particular solution 

[02:46:13.0762] <bakkot>
People may not remember Evaluators, so the comparison to that proposal isn't enough on its own

[10:26:41.0279] <TabAtkins>
naugtur: Yes to what bakkot said, tho I do generally see the obvious niceties of isolated test-runner or isolation environments. I don't understand how this has relevance to DSLs, tho, but that's the first bullet point on the motivation slide

[11:02:53.0070] <naugtur>
TabAtkins: the testrunner's API is the DSL in question - describe, it etc. - where the testing code is in a special global contour that should not be visible to the app sources being tested.

[11:07:01.0850] <TabAtkins>
Ahh, that's not what I usually think of when I hear DSL and evaluation contexts being mentioned together. Ok.


2025-07-24
[15:15:46.0598] <naugtur>
Is 5 min assigned to AsyncContext in the agenda a typo? It doesn't seem like the slides could be read that fast

[15:18:50.0823] <Andreu Botella>
I timed myself and it's not impossible

[15:19:37.0422] <Andreu Botella>
I did add a couple bullet points since then, but I think I can fit it in

[15:21:21.0891] <naugtur>
No discussion planned then

[15:22:25.0458] <Andreu Botella>
this was just an update on the work since the last plenary and our current plan aligns with the result of the brainstorming we did back then

[15:22:39.0478] <naugtur>
understood. 


2025-07-25
[10:29:50.0545] <Michael Ficarra>
it does mean the agenda's out of order though @abotella:igalia.com

[10:30:27.0454] <Michael Ficarra>
items with smaller timeboxes should be listed before other items at the same stage


2025-07-27
[15:25:38.0440] <Chris de Almeida>
draft schedule is up, see reflector issue for link:  https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/565


2025-07-28
[09:44:43.0412] <Rob Palmer>
Hello all

[09:45:17.0081] <Rob Palmer>
We've posted a new TCQ Reloaded link on the Reflector.  Please can folk verify they have access.

https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/565

(and do NOT post the TCQ link here)

[09:48:52.0403] <Jesse>
works for me!

[09:50:37.0076] <Rob Palmer>
Plenary begins in 9 minutes!

[09:54:03.0151] <Jesse>
looks like the notes google doc may need to be opened (normally it's available for edits right away, but I just found it to be read-only)

[09:54:19.0356] <Jesse>
* looks like the privs for the notes google doc may need to be changed (normally it's available for edits right away, but I just found it to be read-only)

[09:55:45.0267] <Rob Palmer>
permissions on the docs are fixed

[09:56:05.0237] <Jesse>
can confirm

[10:06:06.0514] <Michael Ficarra>
FYI the note taker has newlines

[10:06:11.0153] <Michael Ficarra>
the transcriptionist I mean

[10:06:14.0365] <Chris de Almeida>
new TCQ is not a complete rewrite.  it is a fork, main changes were to add abstraction to use with different infra, I think it's made containerized now.  shouldn't be much, if anything, in the way of feature diffs

[10:06:23.0982] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/zalari/tcq/compare/bterlson%3Atcq%3Amaster...reloaded

[10:07:12.0365] <Chris de Almeida>
this should save us from some pain though:  

https://github.com/zalari/tcq/compare/bterlson%3Atcq%3Amaster...reloaded

[10:07:24.0397] <Chris de Almeida>
* this should save us from some pain though:  

https://github.com/bterlson/tcq/commit/6039a03d7c602f82af2203acc0e938cb59dd3a84

[10:08:48.0393] <ljharb>
the notetaker also double spaces after periods

[10:09:09.0429] <Aki>
regular expressions hide all sins

[10:10:57.0820] <ljharb>
not the irregular ones

[10:13:04.0941] <snek>
only commented out in the html... üòà

[10:13:11.0208] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Writing a different number of spaces each time so that a regexp cannot catch me

[10:13:43.0131] <Chris de Almeida>
get's the job done üòÑ

[10:13:57.0849] <Chris de Almeida>
the bad-linebreaks script will catch you

[10:14:05.0543] <Aki>
s/  / /g

[10:14:33.0749] <ljharb>
repeated replace-alls of `.  ` to `. ` will get you eventually

[10:15:12.0920] <Justin Ridgewell>
Regex has the power

[10:15:17.0535] <Chris de Almeida>
```

const reBadLinebreaks = /(?<=[\w\d \p{P}])\n(?=[\w\d ])/gu;
const reExtraWhitespaceParagraph = /^ +| (?= )| +$/gm;
const reExtraWhitespaceList = /(?<=^ {0,}[-*+] |\d+\. ) +|(?<=\w+ ) +| +$/gm;
```

[10:15:21.0141] <Chris de Almeida>
* ```
const reBadLinebreaks = /(?<=[\w\d \p{P}])\n(?=[\w\d ])/gu;
const reExtraWhitespaceParagraph = /^ +| (?= )| +$/gm;
const reExtraWhitespaceList = /(?<=^ {0,}[-*+] |\d+\. ) +|(?<=\w+ ) +| +$/gm;
```

[10:17:07.0991] <ljharb>
(consensys is metamask, in case you're like me and have never heard of the former)

[10:17:24.0599] <naugtur>
I'm always hesitating which one to put as company

[10:27:57.0798] <waldemar>
Curious to hear about the exciting new features in ECMA 404‚Ä¶

[10:28:30.0617] <ryzokuken>
"...features not found" 

[10:28:39.0464] <ryzokuken>
/me üèÉ

[10:41:55.0321] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/code-of-conduct/issues/62

[10:47:10.0180] <Michael Ficarra>
I will start including a summary as my final slide

[10:57:23.0223] <naugtur>
And we could edit it on the spot as conclusions are reached.

[10:57:25.0552] <Michael Ficarra>
thank you very much for the presentation, this helped clarify what was expected from summary and conclusions

[10:58:56.0783] <Aki>
oh yay, i'm so happy to read that Michael Ficarra 

[10:59:45.0775] <saminahusain>
Thank you for the feedback.

[10:59:57.0224] <keith_miller>
https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/3652

[11:02:43.0559] <nicolo-ribaudo>
naugtur It might be useful to screen-share https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-setfunctionname for Mark

[11:11:59.0319] <nicolo-ribaudo>
And highlight step 5.b.i :)

[11:12:00.0355] <naugtur>
Sorry, struggled to find where this notification came from 

[11:16:35.0740] <eemeli>
An explicit Annex B list seems like the best solution here.

[11:19:40.0358] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Chairs, if we end up having 20 minutes free before lunch I'm happy to do my 20m topic

[11:20:08.0115] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Oh well they are both 20m, I guess any of them

[11:38:02.0190] <ljharb>
um, i had the reloaded queue open and never saw any emoji

[11:40:57.0739] <naugtur>
nicolo-ribaudo: I'm wondering if this change could have impact on require(esm) in Node

[11:40:59.0795] <eemeli>
Heh, I saw the emoji but they went away when I switched out of my browser on Android in order to figure out what they meant.

[11:41:19.0519] <naugtur>
* nicolo-ribaudo: I'm wondering if this change could have impact on require(esm) in Node. Probably not as it's not supporting top level await

[11:44:14.0647] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yeah this is only about dynamic import of TLA module graphs

[11:48:07.0131] <naugtur>
I feel like we should be seeing something else in screen share

[13:07:08.0773] <Michael Ficarra>
@softwarechris:matrix.org DJM is @dmitrymakhnev:matrix.org

[13:07:17.0019] <Michael Ficarra>
DJM and DLM both gave +1

[13:07:22.0758] <Chris de Almeida>
yep

[13:07:33.0874] <Chris de Almeida>
but DLM was incorrect in there as DM until I fixed it üôÇ

[13:12:17.0859] <TabAtkins>
So in favor of this, it's great

[13:31:23.0278] <Andreu Botella>
I thought this would be a first step, to then consider doing the same for set iterators and so on

[13:32:32.0125] <Michael Ficarra>
@abotella:igalia.com true, giving up on freezing and instead exploring the Array special-casing is ignoring how we could apply the freezing to other built-in iterators

[13:33:20.0997] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Chris de Almeida: I need to stop taking notes at the top of the hour, rather than when my topic starts as I said before

[13:35:07.0081] <Michael Ficarra>
spreading array literals happens more than you might think

[13:35:33.0338] <ljharb>
i would be surprised if arrays weren't many 9's of the things being spreaded

[13:36:01.0610] <Michael Ficarra>
we don't have an "optionally include this element" so it's common to spread `...(a ? [b] : [])` within an array initialiser

[13:36:06.0269] <kriskowal>
Our position at Agoric regarding initially immutable intrinsics is really subtle. When we create the HardenedJS environment, we don‚Äôt just freeze all of (what we call) Shared Intrinsics, but some of those intrinsics have to be changed, like `Date.now`, `Math.random`, so _in general_ we rely on the pervasive mutability of the language to enable language evolution. We do not believe the specific proposed change hinders us in building HardenedJS environments. But, for the evolution of the web, ‚ÄúEven the very wise do not know all ends‚Äù and pervasive mutability has been good actually, allowing us to plug all manner of holes.

[13:46:14.0683] <Michael Ficarra>
@keith_miller:matrix.org translate it back?

[13:47:04.0119] <ljharb>
see translationparty.com

[13:48:30.0247] <Aki>
ISO policy would theoretically cover Discourse. ISO's whole point (imo) boils down to "use LLMs all you want, just don't show your output to anyone"

[13:50:41.0199] <nicolo-ribaudo>
We can redact the notes before publishing them

[13:50:54.0861] <Michael Ficarra>
we saw that other venues are covering this behaviour in their CoC-equivalent policies, why wouldn't we?

[13:52:41.0929] <ljharb>
is the ISO's in a code of conduct? that's a very specific kind of document.

[13:54:04.0774] <Chris de Almeida>
I don't think so

[13:54:07.0918] <Michael Ficarra>
I think the ISO and ACM policies predate people calling these policies out as "CoC"

[13:54:36.0079] <Michael Ficarra>
but that's effectively what they are

[13:54:50.0170] <Michael Ficarra>
they govern your behaviour in your various interactions with those groups

[13:54:53.0139] <Chris de Almeida>
https://www.iso.org/publication/PUB100011.html

[13:56:46.0439] <ljharb>
so they have a coc, and the ai policy is in a different document

[13:58:26.0692] <kriskowal>
I have learned that people are avoiding em-dashes and Oxford commas in order for their manually-intelligent writing less resemble AI-generated content. Is their a sufficiently reliable criterion that distinguishes rude vs non-rude generative content?

[13:58:43.0219] <ljharb>
psh, you can pry my oxford comma from my cold dead hands

[13:58:49.0831] <Michael Ficarra>
you prefer having more than one document that governs committee interactions?

[13:58:58.0809] <kriskowal>
You have failed CAPTCHA.

[13:58:59.0061] <ljharb>
we already do. that's what "how we work" is

[13:59:15.0469] <ljharb>
* we already do. that's what "how we work" is, and the contribution guide, and a number of other things

[13:59:40.0912] <Michael Ficarra>
none of those warn of formal consequences if not followed

[13:59:53.0610] <ljharb>
nor need they, we can impose consequences any time we want, arbitrarily

[13:59:58.0502] <ljharb>
i don'

[13:59:58.0929] <kriskowal>
* I have learned that people are avoiding em-dashes and Oxford commas in order for their manually-intelligent writing less resemble AI-generated content. Is their a sufficiently reliable criterion that distinguishes rude vs non-rude ~generative~ content, regardless of whether it‚Äôs generated?

[14:00:07.0390] <ljharb>
* i don't need permission to hide someone's comments on my proposal repo, for example

[14:00:21.0426] <Michael Ficarra>
we should not do that, we should have a written policy of the things that will have formal consequences associated with them

[14:00:27.0991] <Michael Ficarra>
like a CoC

[14:00:28.0244] <ljharb>
the purpose of this phrasing is to establish a norm; it doesn't imbue us with any new capabilities

[14:00:39.0496] <ljharb>
* the purpose of this phrasing is to establish a norm that we can cite; it doesn't imbue us with any new capabilities

[14:01:26.0576] <Michael Ficarra>
somebody interacting with committee should have all the tools/info they need to make a contribution without worry that it will come with consequences

[14:01:27.0078] <ljharb>
* the purpose of this addition, wherever it lives, is to establish a norm that we can cite; it doesn't imbue us with any new capabilities

[14:01:29.0696] <Michael Ficarra>
such as by reading the CoC

[14:01:47.0689] <ljharb>
ok but that's a "should" you believe, it's not the current rule/policy, nor is it the case in basically any venue

[14:01:58.0823] <ljharb>
and the CoC is already not the sole place one must read

[14:02:00.0368] <ryzokuken>
if the idea is to moderate contributions from external folks on github and discourse i don't see why formally making it a part of our coc is necessary

[14:02:03.0016] <ljharb>
* and the CoC is already not the sole place one must read to gather that info

[14:02:10.0880] <Michael Ficarra>
it's not?

[14:02:25.0461] <ljharb>
no. the contributor guide is the primary place, and *that* links to the CoC

[14:02:39.0788] <Andreu Botella>
I can take over

[14:02:40.0048] <ljharb>
the CoC talks about comportment and demeanor. the contributor guide talks about how you contribute.

[14:02:42.0942] <Michael Ficarra>
violations of the contributor guide don't get you banned

[14:02:51.0864] <ljharb>
they absolutely could if they're repeated

[14:03:03.0258] <ljharb>
and we wouldn't ban someone for a single AI-generated contribution anyways

[14:03:04.0605] <Michael Ficarra>
no matter how much I'd like to ban someone who omits the Oxford comma

[14:03:46.0786] <ljharb>
the goal isn't to ban people, it's to establish norms so enforcement isn't practically needed in the first place

[14:04:05.0993] <ljharb>
the consequences aren't the point - the *explicit expectation* is the point

[14:04:42.0441] <ljharb>
for example, if my kids only behave because of consequences then i've not done a good job :-)

[14:05:02.0647] <ljharb>
* for example, if my kids only behave because of consequences then i've not done a good job :-) (which, to be clear, is empirically the case at times)

[14:05:56.0977] <Chris de Almeida>
to be clear, use of generative AI in a way that we have prohibited would 100% be subject to enforcement action via the CoC regardless of where the guidance/rules live

[14:14:07.0191] <Michael Ficarra>
where will this bikeshedding be happening? the same coc repo thread?

[14:15:10.0596] <Chris de Almeida>
that issue and the forthcoming PR with the proposed text

[14:28:03.0625] <naugtur>
nicolo-ribaudo: part of your long paragraph is really mixed up. couldn't save it

[14:28:31.0266] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'll go through it, don't worry

[14:28:34.0169] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Thanks for the ping

[14:46:34.0359] <Andreu Botella>
let me fix my mic

[14:52:51.0986] <nicolo-ribaudo>
The whole presentation is already a summary :P

[14:55:50.0620] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Who volunteers to squeeze their 30min topic in the next 4 minutes?

[15:00:38.0362] <naugtur>
There were a couple moments where the transcriptionist would struggle to catch up and drop whole sentences. I think we could make a conscious effort to make a ~1 second pause after each outburst of content when one person is talking, especially with longer sentences where logic of the sentence is non-trivial.

