2025-01-03
[10:01:03.0763] <Chris de Almeida>
__Nominations Requested!  We are seeking two additional facilitators to help with plenary meetings in 2025.__

Please see the Reflector issue for more information:  https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/548


2025-01-05
[17:43:23.0947] <canadahonk>
are there docs for suggesting timeboxes anywhere or are past meetings my best bet?

