2025-04-01
[21:20:55.0671] <ljharb>
the ES2025 candidate has been prepared:
https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/releases/tag/es2025-candidate-2025-03-31
https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/557

[22:35:29.0753] <jschoi>
linusg has kindly made a pull request to proposal-array-from-async (https://github.com/tc39/proposal-array-from-async/pull/48). It makes mostly editorial updates to the proposal spec to match ECMA-262 changes. Thereâ€™s also a small proposal spec bugfix.

Way back in 2022, the proposal spec received pre-Stage-3 reviews from ljharb and nicolo-ribaudo. Should I ask them for repeated reviews before merging the pull request, or should I be okay with merging it unilaterally?

(I do plan on kickstarting the proposal back up soon, maybe all the way to StageÂ 4.)

[01:01:51.0633] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'm happy to take another look next week


2025-04-03
[19:01:46.0722] <jschoi>
Is there a particular reason why withdrawn [proposal-operator-overloading](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-operator-overloading)â€™s repository hasnâ€™t been archived? littledan withdrew it about a year ago, but various people have still been posting to it.

[19:02:11.0578] <jschoi>
* Is there a particular reason why withdrawn [proposal-operator-overloading](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-operator-overloading)â€™s repository hasnâ€™t been archived? littledan withdrew it about a year ago, but various people have still been posting to it since.

[19:03:55.0098] <jschoi>
(It would also be good to link prominently to https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/main/meetings/2023-11/november-28.md#withdrawing-operator-overloading from the explainer.)

[19:04:30.0305] <jschoi>
Ditto goes for [proposal-extended-numeric-literals](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-extended-numeric-literals).

[19:04:46.0571] <jschoi>
* Ditto goes for [proposal-extended-numeric-literals](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-extended-numeric-literals), though thatâ€™s been getting less community traffic.

[01:14:51.0828] <Ashley Claymore>
Good spot. A withdrawn proposal could be re-started. So I don't necessarily think they need to be archived, unless the champions wish to. But an updated README and a pinned issue makes a lot of sense 

[04:38:53.0781] <eemeli>
Renaming the repo with a `withdrawn-` or similar prefix would make the status a bit clearer.

[04:51:26.0966] <Jesse>
AFAIU the tc39 organization in GitHub can define a label (e.g., `withdrawn`) that can be used on repos within the organization

[06:00:49.0657] <ryzokuken>
Hi everyone! For folks interested in visiting us for the hybrid plenary in May, we're working on organizing a community event in collaboration with local communities along the same lines as the recent SeattleJS event you might remember from the last hybrid meeting in Seattle. I've posted a call for participation here: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/556, which allows you to volunteer for a talk or a panel but we're also open to new ideas. Basically if you're up for it, let us know through the spreadsheet form or just informally since it'd help us plan.

[09:32:50.0576] <ljharb>
they should be, it just slipped through the cracks. repos can be unarchived if needed

[10:16:42.0912] <Chris de Almeida>
ðŸ“¢ REMINDER! ðŸ“¢ The deadline for advancement for the April meeting is just ~20 hours from now!

[12:31:37.0029] <jschoi>
Itâ€™s been a long time for me, sorryâ€”whatâ€™s the deadline for new agenda items that do not advance a proposal?

[12:32:39.0856] <ptomato>
before the draft schedule is published?

[12:46:29.0980] <Rob Palmer>
We still encourage early posting.

[13:11:09.0301] <Michael Ficarra>
we formally accept an agenda at the beginning of a meeting, but that hasn't stopped us from making updates during the meeting

[13:11:34.0104] <Michael Ficarra>
> 3. Adoption of the agenda

[13:22:33.0322] <shu>
do we really

[13:22:44.0802] <shu>
like does someone say "are there any objections to adopting this agenda"

[13:38:27.0895] <bakkot>
at literally every meeting, yes

[13:39:49.0987] <shu>
i evict memories of the start of tc39 meetings almost immediately after they occur

[14:06:13.0272] <bakkot>
that's what the notes are for https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/main/meetings/2024-12/december-02.md#:~:text=.%20Are%20there%20any%20objections%20against%20proceeding%20with%20the%20current%20agenda%3F%20None%3F%20Okay.%20We%20have%20adopted%20the%20agenda.

[14:08:16.0480] <shu>
look, i'm not even in the list of attendees, it checks out

[15:43:57.0227] <Michael Ficarra>
there's a lot of things on the agenda for stage advancement with no links

[15:44:51.0468] <Michael Ficarra>
reminder @mhofman:matrix.org @erights:matrix.org that links to review materials should be provided before the advancement deadline

[15:46:03.0656] <kriskowal>
Markâ€™s been working to produce material all week. Iâ€™ll pass on the reminder, and you can expect links soon.


2025-04-04
[06:32:48.0093] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Could we give back to delegates permission to merge in the agenda repo, at least when CI on a PR is green?

[06:34:04.0607] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I understand that ljharb would like to merge the PRs to make sure they conform to the nice commit format (i.e. `YYYY.MM: description`, single commit, squash locally and then merge withuot squashing), but:
- many delegates are trying to respect this format by ourselves too
- many delegates don't care about it and have write access anyway

[06:34:14.0413] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* I understand that ljharb would like to merge the PRs to make sure they conform to the nice commit format (i.e. `YYYY.MM: description`, single commit, squash locally and then merge withuot squashing), but:

- many delegates are trying to respect this format by ourselves too
- multiple delegates don't care about it and have write access anyway

[06:50:58.0363] <nicolo-ribaudo>
(sorry Jordan for putting you on the spot if the reason I lost merge access is not this one ðŸ˜…)

[07:01:46.0384] <Chris de Almeida>
nicolo-ribaudo: delegates have write access

[07:02:12.0963] <Chris de Almeida>
this hasn't changed.. not sure what issue you are running into

[07:02:28.0307] <littledan>
I do not have write access

[07:02:57.0341] <Chris de Almeida>
do you have a couple minutes to hop on a call to investigate?

[07:03:46.0113] <littledan>
sure

[07:14:08.0828] <ljharb>
? you should have that permission already on the agenda repo, yes

[07:14:22.0295] <ljharb>
PRs arenâ€™t even a requirement

[07:14:25.0174] <Chris de Almeida>
I fixed it

[07:18:32.0375] <Chris de Almeida>
nicolo-ribaudo: fixed

[07:20:08.0098] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Ok thank you :)

[07:21:48.0960] <ljharb>
(also merely having an open PR means you hit the deadline, so this sort of thing wouldn't impact that, at least)

[07:23:39.0447] <Chris de Almeida>
gentle reminder that even though PRs are not required, they are greatly appreciated because people who have notifications on will know there is something new on the agenda

