2026-01-02
[08:16:12.0692] <Rob Palmer>
The March 2026 plenary meeting in New York is now [confirmed.](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/571#issuecomment-3705704390) üóΩ


2026-01-05
[00:53:48.0029] <saminahusain>
Happy 2026. üéâ
Clarification request: Is the 112 meeting scheduled from 2026‚Äë01-20 to 23 or 2026‚Äë01-20 to 22; 3 or 4 days? 


[00:53:51.0208] <saminahusain>
Thanks

[04:23:19.0261] <eemeli>
Pretty sure it's intentionally three days.

[06:02:07.0705] <saminahusain>
Ok, thanks.

[10:39:33.0126] <Michael Ficarra>
given the current status of the agenda... it's likely only 1

[11:58:20.0988] <Chris de Almeida>
The deadline for proposal advancement is in ~5 days and there is lots of room available on the agenda. Please add your topics! üôè


2026-01-06
[13:19:26.0530] <Justin Ridgewell>
That was absolutely an AI response. The arguments also don't make sense, syntax is much easier to understand and detect than an imperative method.

[13:21:06.0887] <Justin Ridgewell>
* That was absolutely an AI post. The arguments also don't make sense, syntax is much easier to understand and detect than an imperative method.


2026-01-07
[03:01:35.0751] <saminahusain>
For those who are attending FOSDEM 2026 in Brussels, please also consider to register and attend Toasting TC54 Drinks and light bites.

[03:02:55.0885] <saminahusain>
Thanks 


2026-01-08
[01:56:45.0759] <eemeli>
Should the following intl proposal repos be archived?
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-format

The first two have reached Stage 4, while the last was effectively superseded by NumberFormat v3.

[08:25:42.0924] <Chris de Almeida>
def the stage 4 ones

[10:01:36.0001] <Michael Ficarra>
the stage 1 one should be formally withdrawn if it's been superseded

[10:05:36.0392] <eemeli>
Is the formal withdrawal something that needs to be proposed by the champion, or any delegate?

[10:27:05.0346] <Michael Ficarra>
ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è dunno, but probably anybody can do it

[12:49:54.0009] <ljharb>
if it‚Äôs uncontroversial you can just update the proposals repo, and mention it next plenary, i think

[12:55:46.0016] <eemeli>
Zibi (the proposal's champion) was on today's TG2 call, and I gather that the request to withdraw it will be included in the TG2 update at plenary.

[12:55:55.0635] <Chris de Almeida>
> Is the formal withdrawal something that needs to be proposed by the champion, or any delegate?

mostly depends if the champion(s) are active and/or reachable

but anyone can technically propose it.  it should be formally on the meeting agenda to withdraw it

[12:56:37.0779] <Chris de Almeida>
given that Zibi just made a commit to the repo saying it's deprecated in favor of Unified Intl.NumberFormat, seems safe for anyone to put it on the agenda for the upcoming meeting

[12:57:31.0565] <eemeli>
(I'll miss the next plenary, so not available to submit an agenda item for the withdrawal.)

[12:58:09.0623] <Chris de Almeida>
you can put my name down on it if you don't mind creating the PR

[12:58:38.0694] <eemeli>
Sure, will do.

[13:04:52.0432] <eemeli>
Done. Adding the item increases the total timeboxed time by over 4%, from 70 to 73 minutes.

