2023-08-07
[08:10:38.0946] <TabAtkins>
We didn't make useful quorum for the meeting, so offline ping: a couple of people wanted to take the gist back to their team to discuss before we made a final yay/nay on updating the proposal in the repo. Does anyone object to moving forward with this?


2023-08-08
[21:02:02.0099] <ljharb>
i've been traveling and haven't really had a chance to fully review the gist; i'll be back on the 10th. maybe we could plan to move forward early next week?

