[
{"content":{"body":"https://github.com/tc39/js-outreach-groups/pull/50 - updated the PR with what we discussed in the last meeting and added most of the items from the collection issue.","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1744202209383,"senderName":"Jan Olaf Martin","senderId":"@jkrems:matrix.org","id":"$_F0V2SKvdlhBFZsSFi56EGmUBMC1p-Y0q8kqEfxg5BE"}
]