2022-07-11
[05:59:34.0314] <jschoi>
The menu button in https://tc39.es/code-of-conduct/ doesnâ€™t seem to work for me in portrait orientation on iOS 15.5. 

[05:59:55.0472] <jschoi>
It seems to have a different design than the home pageâ€™s menu button, which does work for me. 

[08:36:50.0850] <yulia>
the code of conduct page is managed separately from the tc39 website repo, can you add an issue here: https://github.com/tc39/code-of-conduct


2022-07-21
[12:57:53.0666] <DerekNonGeneric>
is anyone around that can reopen that issue i mentioned above? i wouldn't mind taking a stab at it with maybe a little help from Sora Morimoto on the translations ^^

[13:22:02.0929] <jasew>
DerekNonGeneric: I've reopened it

[13:23:19.0339] <DerekNonGeneric>
awesome, thanks much jasew!

[13:26:00.0658] <DerekNonGeneric>
btw, i found a slight innacuracy in the README that claims the site is still built using Jekyll https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/blame/master/README.md#L6

[13:47:55.0836] <DerekNonGeneric>
i wanted to change it to say: "built with GitHub Pages using a Jekyll alternative", but wasn't sure what you all might think about that; i think it sounds a little more accurate than currently

[14:01:44.0061] <jasew>
Nice spot.
It's built using eleventy so we should probably just mention that, rather than calling it a "Jekyll alternative"

[14:02:05.0506] <jasew>
 * Nice spot.
It's built using eleventy so we should probably just mention that, rather than calling it a "Jekyll alternative"

[14:04:38.0500] <ljharb>
or maybe not mention it at all, does anyone really care what it's built with?

[14:04:41.0921] <ljharb>
they can go look at the repo for that

[14:20:43.0079] <DerekNonGeneric>
the appeal of having it stated there might've been due to there being so many people already familiar with that publishing workflow (many feel skilled enough to work on it), but it might not be such a bad idea to leave out any opinionated stack details on the second line there. eleventy's tag line (as seen on their github repo's description) is "A simpler static site generator. An alternative to Jekyll." -- that was my rationale, but happy to pr any correction you all would prefer https://github.com/11ty/eleventy

[14:21:59.0334] <ljharb>
but like, readers of the site shouldn't be thinking about that

[14:22:16.0630] <ljharb>
have a link to the github repo somewhere - like one of those dog-ears in the upper corner with a github logo - for those curious about that

[14:26:47.0218] <jasew>
__This site is built using GitHub Pages and Jekyll and is currently an MVP. We are looking for feedback from people of all areas.__ Im fine with removing this sentance

[14:51:32.0024] <DerekNonGeneric>
alright, taken care of in https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/pull/286 -- going to see about getting that other one taken care of now


2022-07-22
[07:14:15.0862] <Sora Morimoto>
> <@dereknongeneric:mozilla.org> is anyone around that can reopen that issue i mentioned above? i wouldn't mind taking a stab at it with maybe a little help from Sora Morimoto on the translations ^^

It's fantastic! I'll be happy to help you :)

[07:27:51.0617] <DerekNonGeneric>
have been looking for a good structured data property to use for this and was not really sure if Google recognize the one septs wanted to use there

[14:23:43.0173] <DerekNonGeneric>
this is the page displaying what is supported by them, but nothing really seems fitting (maybe the org logo one) and the WebPage ones septs is suggesting are not there

[14:23:54.0181] <DerekNonGeneric>
https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/structured-data/search-gallery

[14:24:45.0281] <DerekNonGeneric>
* this is the page displaying what is supported by them, but nothing really seems fitting (maybe the org logo one) and the WebPage ones septs is suggesting are not there


2022-07-25
[18:37:35.0465] <DerekNonGeneric>
Hemanth H.M: do you have any opinion as a GDE?

[18:51:21.0523] <DerekNonGeneric>
> In addition to the properties and objects documented here, Google can make general use of the sameAs property and other schema.org structured data. Some of these elements may be used to enable future Search features, if they are deemed useful.

[18:51:50.0791] <DerekNonGeneric>
 * > In addition to the properties and objects documented here, Google can make general use of the sameAs property and other schema.org structured data. Some of these elements may be used to enable future Search features, if they are deemed useful.

[18:54:37.0584] <DerekNonGeneric>
i guess i can kick off the discussion by adding the structured data for the org logo for now

[08:14:26.0706] <DerekNonGeneric>
alright, taken care of in https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/pull/289

[08:25:30.0756] <Sora Morimoto>
DerekNonGeneric: Cool!

[08:26:04.0127] <Sora Morimoto>
It was done much more quickly than I expected...

[08:26:18.0238] <Sora Morimoto>
I just added a comment

[08:41:33.0151] <DerekNonGeneric>
> <@smorimoto:matrix.org> I just added a comment

Sora Morimoto: yay, co-authored!

[08:42:22.0161] <Sora Morimoto>
Thank you!

[08:47:36.0783] <DerekNonGeneric>
congrats, that is my favorite achievement btw

[08:54:42.0525] <Sora Morimoto>
Looks like it worked?

[08:56:27.0229] <DerekNonGeneric>
hmm, not yet for me it seems (altho i just googled "tc39" and nothing else)

[09:00:13.0776] <Sora Morimoto>
Yeah, exactly. I didn't get it with "tc39", so I googled it up with "tc39 es"...

[09:02:45.0061] <DerekNonGeneric>
that didn't seem to work for me either... anyone else getting the box?

[09:04:06.0303] <DerekNonGeneric>
it might take a little while to propagate (hope it's not location-dependent)

[09:06:56.0028] <DerekNonGeneric>
passing test results at least: https://search.google.com/test/rich-results/result?id=3Mr8VGVX3zFu2QeIKFcpww


2022-07-26
[17:56:08.0024] <Hemanth H.M>
Saw this late, looks like your PR already fixes it?

[18:39:17.0844] <DerekNonGeneric>
perhaps, but looks may be deceiving -- do you have any familiarity with this stuff?

[18:40:23.0063] <DerekNonGeneric>
Hemanth H.M: looks like there are plenty more fields we could be filling in

[18:40:32.0248] <DerekNonGeneric>
https://schema.org/Organization

[18:43:43.0731] <Hemanth H.M>
Nothing apart from what's public is under my radar on this.

[18:45:55.0718] <DerekNonGeneric>
cheers, thanks!

[01:23:06.0747] <jasew>
_We have planning meetings every month, on the last Tuesday at 10:00 AM CEST. If you would like to join, come say hi at the IRC channel! The meeting is held on Google Hangouts here._

Iâ€™m not sure this is still accurate 

[01:23:50.0244] <jasew>
yulia: are there still monthly meetings for the website? Iâ€™m assuming the irc bit is outdated

[01:24:13.0339] <yulia>
we haven't had meetings in a few years

[01:24:26.0042] <yulia>
feel free to start them up again if you are looking to do more work

[01:25:30.0063] <jasew>
Thought so, asynchronous seems to be working fine unless anyone here feels we should spin up these meetings again? I only ask as itâ€™s been more active in here as of late 

[01:44:28.0466] <yulia>
For the todo list: we should start using proposal data from https://github.com/tc39/dataset

[01:46:15.0237] <yulia>
https://tc39.es/dataset/proposals.json

[01:46:32.0434] <yulia>
any additional info can potentially be integrated into that project

[01:48:51.0869] <DerekNonGeneric>
when should the "completed" proposals finally be removed?

[01:49:56.0696] <DerekNonGeneric>
the page is currently showing proposals that have advanced past stage 3

[01:53:37.0366] <DerekNonGeneric>
> <@jasew:matrix.org> _We have planning meetings every month, on the last Tuesday at 10:00 AM CEST. If you would like to join, come say hi at the IRC channel! The meeting is held on Google Hangouts here._
> 
> Iâ€™m not sure this is still accurate 

maybe if we correct this to a link to this matrix channel some people will join and be interested

[02:20:30.0006] <DerekNonGeneric>
the meetings always sounded interesting to me tbh, never knew what was on the agenda or how that meeting would be run ðŸ¤”

[02:53:42.0650] <jasew>
Thatâ€™s fair,ï¿¼ they were quite informal and havenâ€™t been on for years. Maybe for now we can continue to discuss issues on here and weâ€™ll keep an eye and assess the situation.
Using the data yulia linked looks like a good todo action if anyone was interested, I can make an issue if there isnâ€™t one.

[02:53:54.0376] <jasew>
* Thatâ€™s fair,ï¿¼ they were quite informal and havenâ€™t been on for years. Maybe for now we can continue to discuss issues on here and weâ€™ll keep an eye and assess the situation.
Using the data yulia linked looks like a good todo action if anyone was interested, I can make an issue if there isnâ€™t one.

[02:54:55.0426] <yulia>
If there are issues on the dataset  -- it should be done there

[02:55:32.0367] <yulia>
i believe septs has left the committee, at least as a full delegate

[02:55:46.0267] <yulia>
but jack is active, and that repo is a dependency for more things than just the website

[02:59:48.0086] <DerekNonGeneric>
jasew: it might be a good idea to make an issue about this (haven't a clue how translations would be accomplished atm)

[03:02:06.0533] <jasew>
The website can only consume apis at build time (thereâ€™s no server running itâ€™s just static pages), I wonder yulia if we would need some cron to rebuild the website every night? Or does that already happen

[03:02:57.0713] <yulia>
you can create an action that will build it, i believe you can also trigger the build across repos

[03:03:05.0770] <yulia>
so, when dataset is updated for example

[03:03:19.0296] <yulia>
alternatively, we can implement the proposal set client side -- its JS 

[03:03:40.0266] <yulia>
not ideal but, also a possibility

[03:04:05.0830] <yulia>
my preference is of course for a static site with builds triggered by tc39/dataset being updated

[03:04:44.0909] <jasew>
I didnâ€™t know cross repo triggers were a thing, sounds interesting and a good preference 

[03:05:13.0509] <yulia>
i *think* it should be possible

[03:06:14.0263] <yulia>
that or we can have a bot that assists

[03:06:46.0354] <yulia>
which might take the form of a weekly cron job that checks if dataset was updated, and auto generates the new repo and creates a pr

[03:07:05.0548] <yulia>
main goal should be that its low effort to keep it up to date

[03:21:51.0047] <jasew>
I've created https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/issues/290

[03:21:57.0848] <jasew>
 * I've created https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/issues/290

[04:59:24.0738] <Hemanth H.M>
Something like https://www.proposals.es/ would be nice.

Idea: How about we have playground where proposals that can be ployfilled are listed where the user can play with them and provide feedback say at Stage-2?

[04:59:37.0502] <Hemanth H.M>
* Something like https://www.proposals.es/ would be nice.

Idea: How about we have playground where proposals that can be ployfilled are listed where the user can play with them and provide feedback say at Stage-2?

[05:51:25.0370] <yulia>
hm... what do you like about that page?

[05:51:33.0369] <yulia>
i think having a playground would be interesting

[05:52:28.0448] <yulia>
I am not sure it is enough to give feedback for stage 2, i would rather focus on what visitors to the site would get out of it

[05:52:41.0121] <yulia>
user research is something to consider fully separately from the website

[05:55:02.0822] <yulia>
> <@yulia:mozilla.org> hm... what do you like about that page?

for example, this page is interesting, and maybe something we want to consider: https://www.proposals.es/stages. But it would really be helpful to be specific about what you want to change. 

[08:00:39.0973] <Hemanth H.M>
Few things I like about that site:

0. Organization of the stages 
1. Searchability
3. I need to hop of the main site to the GitHub repo to read more about the proposal


[08:01:20.0812] <yulia>
I do like the stages and the searchability

[08:01:51.0696] <yulia>
for #3, my fear is that we might end up making this site more for us, than for users -- we had feedback that seeing all of the work that we do as making it feel like the language does too much

[08:02:13.0131] <yulia>
but, we could have dedicated sub pages (though i don't know that this helps much more than the github?

[08:15:44.0096] <Hemanth H.M>
Bouncing of the main page vs staying in the same makes a difference in context switching. 

The user can get just s preview of the features if they are interested they click on read more and instead of bouncing to the repo we render the content?

[08:16:48.0396] <Hemanth H.M>
> <@yulia:mozilla.org> user research is something to consider fully separately from the website

If we vote to have a playground it would be good to link to the feedback in it? 

Also, should we standardize how the feedback should be received? 

[08:18:06.0101] <yulia>
> <@hemanth.hm:matrix.org> If we vote to have a playground it would be good to link to the feedback in it? 
> 
> Also, should we standardize how the feedback should be received?

This is... the problem. It is easy to get garbage (as in, impossible-to-analyze data points) if you don't know what you want to ask. 

[08:18:23.0052] <yulia>
so standardizing feedback from a playground is _difficult_

[08:18:49.0935] <yulia>
in addition -- there is a huge human cost to unstructured data, especially at the scale of feedback for JS features

[08:19:16.0625] <yulia>
MDN is currently planning micro surveys -- i think we can do something similar, or simply echo those surveys

[08:19:37.0806] <yulia>
its easy to get lost in a lot of work, and having a feedback channel that doesn't have an impact may be worse (people will feel that they are not listened to)

[08:33:02.0324] <Hemanth H.M>
Agree, what needs to be asked might be very specific to each proposal 


2022-07-29
[01:17:26.0192] <sis3020>
Come try the top online game https://splog.win/ pexvqj play now

[12:05:47.0770] <DerekNonGeneric>
jasew: any chance you saw my comment(s) on that cleanup pr that ended up removing the original editorconfig file? https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/pull/280#pullrequestreview-943816005

