2022-06-06
[21:18:13.0183] <Kris Kowal>
Thank you ljharb for creating this space and welcome interested parties in module loader virtualization. I’ve invited as many handles as I could recognize at a glance and I will try to gather the missing champions and collaborators.

[21:24:03.0794] <Kris Kowal>
By wave of an update, I’m working with the champion group to narrow the focus of the Compartments proposal to just module loader virtualization https://github.com/tc39/proposal-compartments/pull/46

[21:26:15.0964] <Kris Kowal>
Specifically in order to present the narrowest profile to the wind. There’s enough interest in the topic and two years of experience vetting the Compartments proposal (stage 1) that it’s time to push for 2.

[21:27:46.0767] <Kris Kowal>
By which I mean I hope to present on behalf of champions and collaborators, not at this plenary, but the next one in July, resources and alignment willing.

