2022-07-01
[13:50:10.0331] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy (and by association Daniel) have convinced me that we can use `importMeta` as in `new Module(source, importHook, importMeta)` and in `importHook(importSpecifier, importMeta)` to stand in for a ‚Äúreferrer‚Äù and that every host environment would still be able to emulate every other host environment. The key is that `importMeta` is object identical in these cases so can be used to carry a gensym or as a key in a WeakMap, even though it‚Äôs not identical to the `import.meta` that the evaluated module sees (unless we change that in ecma262 too!).

[13:52:49.0047] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy and I have also come to an agreement that the next revision of the compartments proposal will reify the constructor named `Module` since we believe module harmony will likely mean `module {} instanceof Module`, where `Module(source, importHook, importMeta)` generates unlinked, linkable, initializable instances of modules.

[13:56:37.0723] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôve also agreed that there‚Äôs no need for the module constructor to _ever_ have an option to override the execution context of the module instances it creates. We can carve out a supplemental proposal for a reified `new ExecutionContext()` that would carry new evaluators `eval`, `Function`, and `Module` bound to the same \[\[Realm\]\]. Between `Module`, `ModuleSource`, and `ExecutionContext`, we would have everything we need to build compartments in user code. We could still go on to provide a `Compartment` constructor in the language, but the motivation would be ergonomics and performance, and would be entirely orthogonal to these primitives, which we agree ought to be exposed.

[13:58:01.0090] <Kris Kowal>
 * I‚Äôve also agreed that there‚Äôs no need for the module constructor to _ever_ have an option to override the execution context of the module instances it creates. We can carve out a supplemental proposal for a reified `new ExecutionContext()` that would carry new evaluators `eval`, `Function`, and `Module` bound to the same \[\[Realm\]\]. Between `Module`, `ModuleSource`, and `ExecutionContext`, we would have everything we need to build compartments in user code. We could still go on to provide a `Compartment` constructor in the language, but the motivation would be ergonomics and performance, and would be entirely orthogonal to these primitives, which we agree ought to be exposed.

[14:10:33.0757] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôve also convinced myself that, if module instances locally memoize the results of their `importHook` for both static and dynamic import, and since the import hook returns module instances, we can induce that import is sufficiently idempotent in aggregate to prevent all useful surprises. Compartments allow for those memos to be slightly more economical with memory, but probably not in any meaningful way in practice. Again, no reason we couldn‚Äôt have both in the fullness of time, but I‚Äôm convinced we should focus on the `Module` and `ModuleSource` primitives.

[14:12:03.0687] <Kris Kowal>
 * I‚Äôve also convinced myself that, if module instances locally memoize the results of their `importHook` for both static and dynamic import, and since the import hook returns module instances, we can induce that import is sufficiently idempotent in aggregate to prevent all useful surprises. Compartments allow for those memos to be slightly more economical with memory, but probably not in any meaningful way in practice. Again, no reason we couldn‚Äôt have both in the fullness of time, but I‚Äôm convinced we should focus on the `Module` and `ModuleSource` primitives.

[14:13:44.0585] <Kris Kowal>
I also believe that there is no better contender for the enormously self-assured name `Module`. My expectation is that `Module` will be backed by the Last Module Record type we ever need and that all meaningful extensions to the module system are different kinds of module source, not new kinds of module instance.

[14:19:03.0641] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy is focusing on a minimal layer that achieves parity with the current behaviors of ecma262, just reifying these two functions. I propose, in addition, that the `Module` constructor receives a ***Module Source Protocol*** implementation object, like `{bindings?, initialize?, needsDynamicImport?, needsImportMeta?}` which instances of `ModuleSource` happen to provide. This would be sufficient to define JSON, CommonJS, WASM, &c module sources in user code. However, that protocol would not be adequate to carry CSP information for vetted module sources and would not preclude the introduction of other host-defined module source classes. I expect only host-defined module source classes would be transmissible via structured clone and cary host-vetted origin metadata.

[14:21:24.0122] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôve also been convinced that the first argument to `initialize` should be called a ***Module Imports Namespace Exotic Object*** (not a reification of the entire definition of ***Module Environment Record***, just an exotic object that can be used to get and set the import and export bindings of the module, in its internal namespace.


2022-07-02
[19:45:36.0664] <Kris Kowal>
yulia: Goal: The ability to evaluate modules in isolated execution contexts and shared frozen intrinsics, or rather, a foundation on which that can be built.

[19:48:54.0163] <Kris Kowal>
That‚Äôs at least the pretext on which I can conscionably work on this as an Agoric delegate! As a JavaScript user, though, eval-but-for-modules has been a personal goal for a long while now. I proposed a `Module` constructor to TC39 in January of 2010!

[00:27:28.0346] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Kris Kowal I really like this new direction üëÄ


2022-07-03
[09:29:53.0611] <Jack Works>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> In any case, I sketched this, borrowing as much as possible from the Compartments proposal https://gist.github.com/kriskowal/288d38e62e55e09685bf62c3a3c25565

> The compartment will leave that promise to dangle, so an eventual rejection will necessarily go unhandled.

I don't agree with this part. If the module throws sync, it will become a sync error that can be caught, but if the promise dangles, I cannot handle it. This creates inconsistency in if module uses TLA or not

[09:35:26.0826] <Kris Kowal>
I also don‚Äôt like it, but couldn‚Äôt think of an alternative behavior. Answering that point consistently with the current host behavior would be ideal.

[09:36:05.0725] <Kris Kowal>
But also, if we reduce the scope to `Module` and `ModuleSource` constructors, I don‚Äôt believe we have to answer the question in our proposal.

[09:36:13.0433] <Jack Works>
Can't it spread to where the import happens? 

[09:36:52.0936] <Kris Kowal>
Is that the behavior of dynamic import for a module and its transitive dependencies when any of them contains top-level-await?

[09:37:05.0742] <Kris Kowal>
Genuinely, not an expert on TLA.

[09:38:03.0609] <Kris Kowal>
That is, does the promise returned by dynamic import settle only when all of the transitive dependencies settle for TLA?

[09:38:48.0534] <Jack Works>
And I wonder how much code I need to write in the user land for the housekeeping work (e.g. module caching stuff), so I can emulate a normal ES module environment (with some built-in modules and a relative path module resolution)? I would like to see an example. 

[09:39:35.0561] <Jack Works>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> Is that the behavior of dynamic import for a module and its transitive dependencies when any of them contains top-level-await?

I believe so, otherwise what should be the result of that dynamic import? 

[09:40:15.0764] <Kris Kowal>
The promise returned by dynamic import could settle after all first turns are completed.

[09:40:31.0928] <Kris Kowal>
Not that I think that‚Äôs sensible, but I don‚Äôt assume.

[09:40:43.0435] <Kris Kowal>
And I haven‚Äôt yet read :-)

[09:41:43.0331] <Kris Kowal>
In any case, I think it will be sufficient to fix that text to match whatever already exists, or delete it if we don‚Äôt have to specify the behavior in the module loader / compartments proposal.

[09:42:15.0129] <Kris Kowal>
As for how much needs to be done in user code, I need to write a sketch of implementing Compartment in user code, in terms of Module, ModuleSource, and ExecutionContext constructors.

[09:42:25.0313] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm expecting to write a couple hundred lines.

[09:46:22.0302] <Kris Kowal>
Again, I know almost nothing about top-level-await, having not used it nor watched the proposal develop. Very much dependent on an expert to call out the right answer for sinking promises.


2022-07-04
[01:09:09.0166] <yulia | Out of Office until July 11th>
I am -sick as heck- y'all

[01:09:20.0802] <yulia | Out of Office until July 11th>
I will not be able to run the meeting on wednesday, or attend at all 

[01:09:31.0140] <yulia | Out of Office until July 11th>
shu: do we have an alternative facilitator?


2022-07-05
[02:27:08.0275] <Surma>
Can someone add surma@shopify.com to the calendar invite for the recurring Loader meeting?

[02:27:14.0599] <Surma>
yulia | Out of Office until July 11th: Hope you feel better soon!

[09:51:11.0876] <littledan>
Surma: Note that you may be able to add the whole TC39 calendar for yourself from https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=mozilla.com_l7b50itpaa9bnrvr61nebqrne8@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Los_Angeles

[10:19:53.0276] <Surma>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> Surma: Note that you may be able to add the whole TC39 calendar for yourself from https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=mozilla.com_l7b50itpaa9bnrvr61nebqrne8@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Los_Angeles

Yeah i did do that! Thank you! I'm just keen to get a reminder for this specific one ;)

[10:49:30.0117] <Kris Kowal>
> <@yulia:mozilla.org> shu: do we have an alternative facilitator?

I believe I should shadow a facilitator before I volunteer for that role, but if nobody steps up, I will definitely do my best impression. My understanding is that this mostly involves making sure agenda and minutes get captured, in addition to shepherding the meeting.

[10:53:22.0418] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôve sketched an agenda:
1. Overflow from my kick-off on Module Harmony thru the Compartments lens
2. nicolo-ribaudo on Module Harmony thru the lens of Module Blocks‚Äôs emerging spec text
3. caridy on minimum-viable first-class Module and ModuleSource

[10:57:36.0591] <Kris Kowal>
I believe yulia | Out of Office until July 11th had in mind some important front-matter to get us all on the same page for each other‚Äôs hopes and expectations from module harmony, which I think we ought to pursue as early as possible. I can also attempt to facilitate that, though I‚Äôm also not confident I can fill Yulia‚Äôs shoes.

[10:58:01.0167] <Kris Kowal>
That is, in fact, probably more important to articulate than any of the above.

[10:59:09.0463] <Kris Kowal>
To that end, please give me a thumbs up here if you‚Äôre prepared to speak to your own hopes and expectations of Module Harmony tomorrow.

[10:59:25.0990] <Kris Kowal>
Perhaps we can do a round-the-room.

[11:02:57.0355] <Kris Kowal>
(And of course, I hope any other convener can lead this conversation since I don‚Äôt expect anyone to trust my impartiality!)

[11:56:22.0627] <littledan>
I can help with convening if Yulia is out but at the same time maybe we should just wait until she gets back?

[13:27:00.0177] <Kris Kowal>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> I can help with convening if Yulia is out but at the same time maybe we should just wait until she gets back?

This would probably be wise, as the premise of this harmony group is to keep all stakeholders on the same page.

[13:28:38.0262] <littledan>
I'd like to propose, for an upcoming meeting, a discussion of how we've figured out how a lot of the space factors into three mostly orthogonal proposals (module reflection, module blocks/fragments, and the loader) since I think we made a lot of progress on that in the past couple weeks

[13:29:53.0281] <Kris Kowal>
Agreed. I‚Äôd also like to focus on how the points of intersection appear to be coherent.

[13:30:11.0313] <littledan>
top agenda item: How do we name ModuleInstance/ModuleBlock :)

[13:30:49.0793] <Kris Kowal>
I think with some effort over the next week, we could arrive at the harmonious conclusion: `Module`.

[13:31:44.0081] <Kris Kowal>
And the desugarring of `module {}` to `new Module()`.

[13:32:24.0406] <littledan>
hmm, maybe. I feel suspicious but I'm fine with that as a working title

[13:32:28.0927] <Kris Kowal>
It seems likely to me that, even if the notion of a `Compartment` survives, the notion of a module descriptor probably merges into `Module` instances.

[13:32:38.0358] <littledan>
(basically for the reasons you gave in your last presentation)

[13:32:45.0697] <Kris Kowal>
Yes, rightly suspicious.

[13:33:39.0187] <Kris Kowal>
Some of my thinking, chronicled above, has changed over the last couple weeks.

[13:35:00.0192] <Kris Kowal>
Since Caridy‚Äôs been challenging my assumption that 262 would need to subsume module maps. Nicol√≤ has also been moving in the direction of subsuming module maps. Not sure whether we‚Äôve crossed positions, but that would be funny.

[13:35:28.0963] <littledan>
huh, what do you mean by subsuming module maps?

[13:39:39.0171] <Kris Kowal>
And Nicol√≤ also learned this morning that HTML anchors module maps in an unexpected place: on module instances. That‚Äôs surprisingly consistent with what Caridy is proposing.

[13:41:30.0314] <Kris Kowal>
I mean that module maps are currently implied into existence by 262, through host behaviors. There isn‚Äôt a [[ModuleMap]], say, on a Realm record. (Qualifier: this is hearsay. I‚Äôm not sufficiently intimate with 262 to purport the non-existence of anything within its pages.)

[13:43:58.0724] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy‚Äôs driving toward a simplification of the compartment proposal that notably omits Compartment. I‚Äôm convinced that it‚Äôs functionally equivalent, even up to preserving all useful idempotence invariants and compatibility with our hardened JavaScript objectives. Omitting compartments effectively moves all module memoization behavior to a new kind of concrete Module Record, say, Virtual Module Record, which would be re√Øfied by a `new Module` constructor.

[13:45:11.0180] <nicolo-ribaudo>
(note: the specific word in html for module instances is "module scripts")

[13:45:16.0041] <Kris Kowal>
And I understand that you, Daniel Ehrenberg , provided the useful insight that the `importMeta` is sufficient to imply a referrer without having a dedicated referrer argument on a `Module` constructor.

[13:47:45.0526] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I have to think about this more, but after I talked with you (Kris) I'm convinced that my direction and how I understood Caridy's direction from you are not inconciliabile 

[13:48:14.0732] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Always assuming that compartments/"reified modules" are exactly as much powerful as hosts

[13:48:40.0726] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* Always assuming that compartments/"reified modules" are exactly as much powerful as hosts

[13:48:47.0516] <Kris Kowal>
My opinion is that, to use the name `Module`, it must be exceedingly worthy. That is to say, there must never come a time in the evolution of 262 that we reify an object that is worthier of the title or create a class where this particular kind of module is no more special that the others. I believe it meets that criterion iff it turns out that all specialization of modules going forward is sufficiently addressed with new types of Static Module Record.

[13:49:24.0368] <Kris Kowal>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> I have to think about this more, but after I talked with you (Kris) I'm convinced that my direction and how I understood Caridy's direction from you are not inconciliabile

Is this to say, you believe these directions are compatible?

[13:50:26.0173] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm hopeful that they are.

[13:50:27.0693] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yes. The things I added in the modules block spec are all "spec internals", and they shouldn't affect the exposed API in any way

[13:51:09.0487] <littledan>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> And I understand that you, Daniel Ehrenberg , provided the useful insight that the `importMeta` is sufficient to imply a referrer without having a dedicated referrer argument on a `Module` constructor.

Caridy seems to have run with this further than I thought possible

[13:51:36.0108] <Kris Kowal>
We may have run together.

[13:51:45.0350] <Kris Kowal>
So I‚Äôll unpack what we learned.

[13:52:22.0681] <littledan>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> (note: the specific word in html for module instances is "module scripts")

Can I also say that I don't like this name either? :)

[13:52:46.0362] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yes, it's the most confusing name possible 

[13:52:59.0510] <Kris Kowal>
Assuming `new Module(source, importHook, importMeta)` is sufficient, `importMeta` is _not_ identical to `import.meta` as seen by the source, but _is_ identical to the object received by `importHook` to address the referrer, as in `importHook(importSpecifier, importMeta) => Promise<Module>`.

[13:53:54.0579] <Kris Kowal>
That is to say, that in user code, one can arrange a side table from `importMeta` to `referrer` and it‚Äôs sufficient that import hooks know about it.

[13:54:20.0126] <littledan>
I was thinking about it and... I'm not sure if importHook is at the same level as importMeta. At least, when serializing and deserializing a Module, you'll often preserve the importMeta and swap in a new importHook

[13:54:31.0417] <littledan>
(along with giving it a new identity)

[13:54:34.0452] <Kris Kowal>
That allows for the possibility, as is necessarily the case for some environments, that neither `import.meta.url` and `import.meta.resolve` are available for an `importHook` to use, much less necessarily trust.

[13:54:55.0388] <littledan>
"preserve" importMeta in an abstract sense, though--it will surely be a different object identity

[13:55:16.0374] <littledan>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> That allows for the possibility, as is necessarily the case for some environments, that neither `import.meta.url` and `import.meta.resolve` are available for an `importHook` to use, much less necessarily trust.

hmm, why?

[13:55:19.0284] <Kris Kowal>
Yes, `importMeta !=== import.meta`.

[13:55:29.0659] <littledan>
oh! really?

[13:56:07.0098] <Kris Kowal>
I should say, not necessarily ===.

[13:56:41.0635] <littledan>
now I'm even more confused

[13:57:15.0681] <Kris Kowal>
What i‚Äôm saying is that, for the purposes of this side table, importMeta as given to the constructor may be copied over an Object with a null prototype and all useful properties of import hooks are preserved.

[13:58:20.0869] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm not saying that they can‚Äôt be identical. It probably wouldn‚Äôt be useful to create a new mechanism that allows `import.meta` to be a number or a proxy.

[13:58:43.0908] <Kris Kowal>
One way to do that would be copying properties. Another would just be to assert its nature. Asserting it‚Äôs not a proxy is somewhat hard.

[14:01:36.0314] <Kris Kowal>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> hmm, why?

Continuity with the past. The alternative is to suggest that this virtualization be limited to situations where `import.meta.url`, `import.meta.resolve`, or some other property carries the referrer in another host-defined sort of way. Not all existing environments meet that bar. I‚Äôm not suggesting this is a blocker. I‚Äôm suggesting that it‚Äôs definitely not a blocker. Those environments can be emulated with a side table keyed on `importMeta`, regardless of whether that‚Äôs identical to `import.meta`.

[14:03:00.0044] <Kris Kowal>
Which is to say, the problem I imagined with not enshrining `referrer` in the `Module` constructor, turns out to be imaginary.

[14:03:57.0442] <Kris Kowal>
Now, whether the same reasoning applies to module blocks remains mysterious to me.

[14:04:57.0207] <Kris Kowal>
That is, whether it is sufficient to serialize `import.meta` when reconstructing an equivalent module in another worker, as opposed to serializing a [[Referrer]] internal slot.

[14:05:20.0154] <Kris Kowal>
(To the extent that import.meta is serializable!)

[14:05:32.0049] <nicolo-ribaudo>
But isn't `import.meta` lazily-initialized (on first access), so potentially not available when transferring a module block?

[14:05:49.0158] <Kris Kowal>
As written today, yes.

[14:06:17.0434] <Kris Kowal>
Lazy initialization of `import.meta` could be copying properties from `importMeta`.

[14:06:38.0746] <Kris Kowal>
Regardless, if we relaxed the verbiage around lazy initialization of `import.meta`, the change wouldn‚Äôt be observable.

[14:13:34.0385] <Kris Kowal>
Bradley related to us at a SES call of yore that Node.js depends on this laziness to avoid instantiating an `import.meta.resolve` closure for every module. That gets created lazily on the first evaluation of `import.meta`. In the Compartments proposal, we solved that problem by adding a `needsImportMeta` property to `ModuleSource / StaticModuleRecord` instances such that a `loadHook / importHook` can avoid building an `importMeta` except for modules that are likely to need it, by reflecting static analysis.

[14:14:00.0523] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy‚Äôs direction preserves that solution.

[14:14:07.0004] <littledan>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> Regardless, if we relaxed the verbiage around lazy initialization of `import.meta`, the change wouldn‚Äôt be observable.

yeah it only seems observable given a sufficiently visible host

[14:14:12.0168] <littledan>
which, probably doesn't exist right now

[14:14:25.0545] <Kris Kowal>
It might with the experimental Node.js Loader.

[14:14:42.0819] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm inclined to hope that we get ahead of that here.

[14:15:37.0886] <Kris Kowal>
And if a host virtualization hook is running synchronously during the first evaluation of `import.meta`, that seems needlessly foot-gunny.

[14:19:31.0752] <Kris Kowal>
shu, littledan We probably ought to decide and communicate a cancellation for tomorrow‚Äôs meeting. Are either of you positioned to reach all participants?

[14:20:50.0157] <guybedford>
FYI I posted https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/8077 for making `import.meta.resolve` a generic resolver

[14:20:58.0108] <guybedford>
which might be a useful technique for loaders to get access to the global resolver

[14:21:39.0369] <guybedford>
Kris Kowal: are you referring to the SES or modules meeting tomorrow? Is this because we don't have someone to run it?

[14:22:46.0533] <Kris Kowal>
Yulia being absent leaves us without a convener, but more importantly, leaves us without an important stakeholder.

[14:23:08.0782] <Kris Kowal>
 * Yulia being absent leaves us without a convener, but more importantly, leaves us without an important stakeholder.

[14:23:19.0958] <guybedford>
It may still be useful to have the discussion if we can

[14:23:41.0109] <guybedford>
Didn't shu give host credentials to others as well?

[14:23:57.0164] <guybedford>
Has no one else come forward to assist with convening?

[14:23:59.0999] <Kris Kowal>
Yes, others can open the meeting.

[14:24:10.0675] <Kris Kowal>
Dan has come forward to assist with convening if we convene.

[14:24:40.0664] <guybedford>
Even if we don't have all stakeholders, we should still have notes to share and can continue to build some shared understanding on the matters

[14:25:01.0961] <littledan>
> <@guybedford:matrix.org> Didn't shu give host credentials to others as well?

Yes, I should have credentials in theory

[14:25:25.0512] <Kris Kowal>
I think there‚Äôs a hope that we move forward together. Discussions are obviously great, but we don‚Äôt want to assume that the shared context has advanced.

[14:26:26.0815] <Kris Kowal>
That is, if we have any module harmony conversations outside of these ‚Äúincubator‚Äù calls, we need to expect to present our findings again on the call.

[14:27:12.0793] <guybedford>
I think we are still very much in a phase of discovery here

[14:27:20.0939] <Kris Kowal>
This is true.

[14:27:30.0151] <guybedford>
so that it's less about decisions and more about continuing the conversations

[14:27:44.0755] <guybedford>
there's still a lot to discuss!

[14:27:49.0175] <Kris Kowal>
I read you‚Äôre in favor of having a conversation.

[14:27:59.0253] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm also very aware that we have two weeks to plenary.

[14:28:15.0846] <Kris Kowal>
And that I have put my foot into the agenda.

[14:29:02.0790] <guybedford>
Myself and Luca at least would value giving a 10 minute update on where we would like to take import reflection, and before plenary, to ensure we don't step on any toes

[14:29:49.0113] <guybedford>
we want to ensure we're getting the cross-concerns right

[14:30:21.0675] <Kris Kowal>
One option is that I can reconvene the SES meeting.

[14:30:47.0953] <guybedford>
the hope for these meetings, at least for myself, was to be able to see how the pieces of the puzzle can fit together to form a wholistic picture

[14:30:57.0521] <Kris Kowal>
Same, agreed.

[14:31:14.0688] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> One option is that I can reconvene the SES meeting.

Aren't "SES meeting and let's talk about modules" and "Modules meeting" effectively the same thing?

[14:32:10.0259] <Kris Kowal>
No, we have an agreement that any findings from the SES meeting will be reprised at the Module Harmony group so that the broader group of stakeholders can stay in sync.

[14:32:41.0301] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Ok right, it would be good then. I don't think we should come to a "group decision" without all the important stakeholders

[14:32:42.0190] <Kris Kowal>
We can of course retcon our findings so we‚Äôre not presenting the incoherent ideas!

[14:33:19.0561] <littledan>
Not sure what you mean by "reprised" but yeah as Nicolo says the important thing is that we don't think of anything from SES as having reached a group decision, but instead having had some interesting discovery-oriented discussions

[14:34:02.0457] <Kris Kowal>
It‚Äôs also important that group decisions don‚Äôt come out of the modules harmony calls, but I think we‚Äôre mostly on the same page üòâ

[14:36:12.0614] <Kris Kowal>
In any case, I‚Äôm going to continue making slides and will expect to share them in one venue or another.

[14:36:41.0264] <Kris Kowal>
And it would be good for us to communicate a decision.

[14:40:08.0934] <guybedford>
It would be good to work through the slides further, it would also be good to have a few mins for us each to share our respective updates

[14:40:59.0020] <guybedford>
we could probably present the current import reflection thinking in about 5 - 10 mins

[14:41:18.0964] <guybedford>
we are actively seeking feedback

[14:42:04.0035] <guybedford>
would it be possible to complete the slides in 30-40 mins?

[14:42:19.0273] <guybedford>
would definitely be useful to continue building out the shared context

[14:42:39.0573] <guybedford>
or is the problem Kris Kowal that you would prefer to have Yulia present for that?

[14:43:55.0557] <Kris Kowal>
I intend to present an abbreviated deck from the overflow from the prior meeting.

[14:44:31.0470] <Kris Kowal>
I think Yulia would have kicked this meeting off with an around-the-room of each of our goals.

[14:45:03.0559] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôve asked Nicol√≤ to show what he‚Äôs learned over the last two weeks from writing up spec text for module blocks.

[14:45:40.0429] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôd be elated to give you guybedford the floor to sync up on import reflection.

[14:46:20.0478] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy will miss the first 20', but I‚Äôm hoping he gets a chance to share his vision for `Module` and `ModuleSource`.

[14:47:47.0291] <Kris Kowal>
And I think it‚Äôs not too premature to share his sketch (cc nicolo-ribaudo) https://gist.github.com/caridy/98f61cf6100243c3cecef5c16a4eff2d

[15:12:39.0329] <littledan>
Yeah well I'm up to convene/facilitate a discovery-oriented discussion as long as we plan to come back and reconsider things when stakeholders are available

[15:13:06.0684] <littledan>
so we can do this tomorrow at the time in the calendar if people want to

[15:24:42.0969] <Kris Kowal>
That at least has the virtue of not requiring last minute comms.

[15:24:54.0334] <Kris Kowal>
And also an extra half hour of talk time.

[15:38:20.0134] <Luca Casonato>
I will have to drop off at the top of the hour unfortunately, so it‚Äôd be great if we can cover import reflection some time in the first half of the meeting

[15:41:33.0124] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm going to defer my overflow deck to a subsequent meeting. I‚Äôm writing Luca Casonato and guybedford into the agenda as the opening act.

[15:42:02.0314] <Kris Kowal>
Also moved Goals to the next meeting for Yulia.

[15:43:12.0521] <Kris Kowal>
The agenda is a writable link off the TC39 calendar invitation.

[15:45:07.0670] <Luca Casonato>
Thanks Kris


2022-07-06
[18:07:06.0251] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôve finished a deck for tomorrow, should time permit. I added this to the end of the meeting as it shows where I think we‚Äôre converging. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_juf8l8PCrVHA4iA1G4BwQ1JsuXMjOVa/view

[23:53:28.0016] <Jack Works>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> I‚Äôve finished a deck for tomorrow, should time permit. I added this to the end of the meeting as it shows where I think we‚Äôre converging. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_juf8l8PCrVHA4iA1G4BwQ1JsuXMjOVa/view

I like this. Where does the module descriptor go? 

[00:11:22.0336] <Kris Kowal>
Module descriptors cease to be necessary. When implementing a Compartment in user code, module instances replace module descriptors. User-mode Compartments aren‚Äôt able to address modules from the host compartment by name, but import reflection replaces that role.

[00:13:56.0058] <Kris Kowal>
e.g., `defer import fs from 'fs'; new Compartment{{ modules: { fs } }).import('fs')` is a possible solution with a user-code Compartment implementation.

[00:14:57.0283] <Kris Kowal>
(where `defer import` is import reflection. I haven‚Äôt seen a syntax I like for that yet, so just riffing here.)

[00:23:06.0820] <Kris Kowal>
Actually, for inter-compartment linkage, we would have to implement module-descriptors in user code.

[12:29:40.0452] <Kris Kowal>
Are any champions going to seek advancement for module proposals at the next plenary?

[12:30:40.0510] <Luca Casonato>
We are planning to seek stage 2

[12:32:21.0263] <Kris Kowal>
I propose that I repurpose the slot I‚Äôve reserved for compartments to deliver a module harmony, based on where we are as of this morning. My impression is that we need more work on module harmony before we have a proposal that can advance to Stage 2.

[12:33:30.0932] <Kris Kowal>
In my opinion, none of our proposals should advance until we have a shared foundation, and as far as I‚Äôm concerned, that shared foundation could be bundled into any proposal seeking stage 2 or greater.

[12:34:27.0119] <Kris Kowal>
By the shared foundation, I mean the modifications to the abstract module record hierarchy on which we all likely depend.

[12:35:22.0467] <Kris Kowal>
 * I propose that I repurpose the slot I‚Äôve reserved for compartments to deliver a module harmony report, based on where we are as of this morning. My impression is that we need more work on module harmony before we have a proposal that can advance to Stage 2.

[12:36:24.0472] <Kris Kowal>
 * By the shared foundation, I mean the additions to the abstract module record hierarchy on which we all likely depend.

[12:37:32.0950] <guybedford>
Kris Kowal: I'm not sure we should let specification editorial details block individual proposals. As long as each proposal is semantically sound, and we are tackling the shared interaction problems, I don't think we need to converge on sharing exact spec text between proposals especially at this stage.

[12:38:25.0970] <Kris Kowal>
For import reflection, I think the syntax pivot is good. I can see `import module` and `import static module`. I would be okay with `import static module` reifying the literal WASM `Module` object provided that it can be passed to a `new Module(wasmSource, importHook, importMeta)` when first-class modules come.

[12:40:00.0590] <Kris Kowal>
My understanding is that stage 2 requires tentative spec text. I‚Äôm asking that any proposal that advances have tentative spec text that is sufficient for any other module proposal to build upon.

[12:40:25.0575] <Kris Kowal>
I could be wrong. This is my first stage advancement rodeo.

[12:41:11.0948] <Kris Kowal>
But I believe the guiding principle is right: we should not paint ourselves into a corner that would preclude advancement of other proposals, or produce avoidable scar tissue.

[12:41:18.0814] <Kris Kowal>
 * But I believe the guiding principle is right: we should not paint ourselves into a corner that would preclude advancement of other proposals, or produce avoidable scar tissue.

[12:41:42.0719] <Kris Kowal>
But I‚Äôll qualify that: spec text scar tissue does not bother me. Reified object scar tissue does.

[12:42:10.0007] <guybedford>
Right, although Stage 2 is not an implementation stage

[12:42:24.0275] <guybedford>
Only at Stage 3 does scarring start to occur!

[12:43:10.0411] <guybedford>
In our current specification we defined the mechanics of the reflection, but we have left the actual reflection object being returned to be entirely defined by the host for now

[12:43:22.0001] <guybedford>
through a HostResolveModuleReflection hook

[12:43:36.0348] <guybedford>
our hope is that this is clear enough for stage 2, without being too prescriptive yet

[12:43:54.0298] <guybedford>
we would hope to refine for stage 3 some further invariants around the resolution and exact JS reflection object

[12:44:02.0690] <guybedford>
but for now we just treat it as host defined

[12:44:35.0315] <guybedford>
I would be interested to hear if that mitigates your concerns, the spec text PR is up at https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-reflection/pull/21 and should be landing soon

[12:44:47.0021] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôll give it a read.

[12:45:26.0526] <Kris Kowal>
The invariant I would hope to preserve would be `new Module(x, ‚Ä¶rest)` would work for any `x` reflected by `import static module ...`.

[12:45:53.0729] <Kris Kowal>
And I would cut it as fine as differentiating `import module` from `import module static`.

[12:47:09.0639] <Kris Kowal>
I think it is important that `import module x from 'x.any'` should always produce `x instanceof Module` whereas there‚Äôre more degrees of freedom for `import static module x from 'x.any'`.

[12:47:26.0843] <guybedford>
as mentioned in the meeting, we are only interested in the `import module` being the `import static module` case you describe

[12:47:41.0074] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm interested in both existing.

[12:47:41.0815] <guybedford>
we don't have a use case for the module instance reflection

[12:47:57.0458] <Kris Kowal>
Deferred execution is the motivating case for module instance reflection.

[12:48:05.0160] <guybedford>
specifically - what would the import hook be for an implicit instance reflection?

[12:48:39.0833] <guybedford>
deferred execution is not a use case of reflection either, and we have mentioned before this is separate specification work

[12:48:51.0661] <Kris Kowal>
import instance reflection would inherit the surrounding module instance‚Äôs import hook.

[12:49:37.0897] <Kris Kowal>
In my current mental model, these occupy overlapping syntactic space that should be coherent when we have solutions to both problems.

[12:49:47.0079] <guybedford>
it sounds very much like a deferred import

[12:49:51.0555] <Kris Kowal>
It is.

[12:49:58.0888] <guybedford>
That is Yulias area not ours

[12:50:24.0947] <guybedford>
I think it can be achieved but it is a separate specification to what we are working on with module reflection

[12:50:32.0196] <guybedford>
"reflection" by its nature is about a higher order import

[12:50:34.0997] <guybedford>
not an instance import

[12:50:52.0573] <Kris Kowal>
I do not mean to suggest that your proposal should solve both motivating use cases.

[12:51:07.0454] <Kris Kowal>
I do suggest that we are responsible for ensuring that these merge without conflict.

[12:51:36.0073] <guybedford>
it is our collective responsibility to not conflict eachother yes :)

[12:51:37.0690] <Kris Kowal>
I suggest that in the end we should have syntax for both cases.

[12:52:03.0680] <guybedford>
that's fine, and nothing is precluded

[12:52:25.0221] <guybedford>
specifically we have further constrained import reflection to module import reflection

[12:52:51.0516] <guybedford>
other proposals for other types of imports like assets or deferred execution can easily coexist

[12:52:54.0094] <Kris Kowal>
`import module x from 'x.js'` meaning x instanceof `WASM.Module` would preclude `import module x from 'x.js'` alternately meaning `x instanceof Module`.

[12:53:07.0575] <guybedford>
right but it doesn't preclude `import defer x from 'x.js'`

[12:53:22.0366] <Kris Kowal>
I agree that is possible.

[12:53:51.0490] <Kris Kowal>
In a universe with both, are we creating another footnote in WAT.js?

[12:54:11.0585] <guybedford>
if there is issue with the `module` term not being clear enough, we can consider other options

[12:54:19.0362] <guybedford>
the hope was too avoid too much of a bikeshed of course

[12:54:19.0804] <Kris Kowal>
```
import module x from 'x.wasm';
x instanceof Module; // false WAT?
```

[12:54:31.0687] <guybedford>
I hope we could consider this mostly aesthetic as opposed to a primary stage 2 concern

[12:55:14.0000] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôll grant this is aesthetic. What stage do aesthetics become a concern?

[12:55:48.0931] <Kris Kowal>
Soft concern for 2, hard concern for 3?

[12:58:46.0093] <guybedford>
From what I believe, stage 2 is expected to be complete specification but can still have open questions

[12:58:58.0353] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôll also grant that `import defer x from 'x.any'` has a nice ring to it.

[12:59:39.0632] <guybedford>
we'll make sure to highlight these points, this has been useful

[13:35:46.0505] <littledan>
I think we still have a number of foundational questions to answer, for all of the proposals we're discussing. A number of unresolved points of disagreement just came up in that meeting. I'm fine with things moving to Stage 2 as long as this is to be interpreted explicitly as "we agree that we want to move forward as a committee in this area, and have one concrete idea of how it might work, but we're still open to resolving these foundational questions in multiple ways"

[13:36:18.0817] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> <@guybedford:matrix.org> From what I believe, stage 2 is expected to be complete specification but can still have open questions

Stage 3 is complete specification, for stage 2 you need a draft 

[13:36:41.0320] <littledan>
I mean, module blocks seems to be one of these proposals which has these unresolved foundational questions, and it's already at Stage 2! But this is largely because it hadn't yet occurred to us that module blocks might be referrer-less, which Caridy is now advocating

[13:37:35.0721] <littledan>
I don't tend to agree with people who insist that all foundational questions be addressed by Stage 2. It's just too common for us to find that we need to revisit foundational issues during Stage 2. I think it's more that, Stage 2 indicates a level of interest/resolve to work things out, together with concreteness on *some* possibility

[13:37:51.0214] <littledan>
the bikeshed is definitely not a Stage 2 blocker

[13:39:02.0468] <littledan>
I think we should at least wait until Yulia is back to conclude that deferred module evaluation is separate from Guy's and Luca's proposal. I've heard multiple suggestions that these are really the same space. So if Stage 2 were to be taken to mean, "these are definitely separate"... I wouldn't be ready to say that yet.

[13:41:05.0854] <littledan>
Concretely, I hope we can all get more space to decide whether module blocks and reflective modules are ModuleSource or Module values. My expectation was that they were both Module, but Guy was proposing that reflective modules be ModuleSource, and Caridy was proposing that module blocks be ModuleSource

[13:41:17.0273] <littledan>
I think we can iterate on this question after Stage 2 but before Stage 3

[13:41:27.0307] <littledan>
 * I think we can iterate on this question after Stage 2 but before Stage 3

[13:43:17.0831] <littledan>
I was disappointed that asset references fell out of what Guy and Luca are proposing initially. I'd be interested in hearing more about what's behind that decision, and how soon you'd like to follow up with asset references, since they seem quite useful.

[13:52:14.0399] <littledan>
guybedford: Luca Casonato I'd be happy to have a call with you some time soon to discuss all this more if you're interested

[14:55:26.0362] <Kris Kowal>
Same

[14:56:06.0763] <Kris Kowal>
And I‚Äôm putting together a review to call out at least where I think we‚Äôre headed tentatively where it doesn‚Äôt match. Emphasis on tentative.

[14:56:52.0905] <Kris Kowal>
If I read the room right, I should hurry up and put together some spec text for first class modules (Module and ModuleSource) and shoot for the two.

[15:02:23.0610] <Kris Kowal>
And I think Caridy and I both suggest `module {} instanceof Module` and `static module {} instanceof ModuleSource`. Serializing ModuleSource is uncontroversial. Serializing Module is controversial. By the end of the call, I think we had agreement that Module, if serializable, is intentionally cherry picking the serializable subset of the instance. However, Caridy, Guy, Shu, and I all have misgivings. I have made peace with my misgivings.

[15:05:08.0714] <Kris Kowal>
My feeling is that trusting the sender and receiver to have identical importHook behavior is possible but fragile. But, if we have blocks, static blocks, `Module` and `ModuleSource` to work with, I think that the ecosystem will have everything it needs to come up with more sensible protocols for sending modules to workers.

[15:07:19.0410] <Kris Kowal>
That is to say, I predict that `worker.import(module {})` will look good in examples but will otherwise have limited utility. But, that‚Äôs okay with me.

[15:39:02.0649] <guybedford>
@littledan thanks for the feedback, we see module reflection as laying down an approach that asset reflection and deferred execution can follow in, as opposed to the original more abstract view of a generical mechanic. Trying to be practical and use case focused while treating generalization as a possibility but not to over-generalize. We are keen to see asset references and deferred module loading move forward, we are just trying to focus our efforts in a way that keeps scope clear in the staging process. We currently are underspecifying what exactly the shape of the reflection object is though, and treating this as a detail to be refined as opposed to prescribing it at this point. The way we do this for now is to entirely delegate it to a host hook, then the hope for Stage 3 would be to follow-up with an exact definition for JS that will hopefully have progressed by then. We need the host hook regardless for Wasm though.

[15:39:29.0094] <guybedford>
all good points, will do our best to address the various nuances!

[15:39:52.0568] <guybedford>
Definitely agreed feedback from Yulia is needed to progress in many of these discussions at this point

[15:43:55.0520] <Kris Kowal>
guybedford Am I correct that `new Module(wasmModule, importHook, importMeta)` where `wasmModule instanceof WebAssembly.Module` is a sensible way import reflection for WASM and first-class modules would compose?

[15:44:16.0523] <Kris Kowal>
That implies that the WASM module can both import and export.

[15:44:42.0370] <Kris Kowal>
Or is it only sensible to link WASM modules manually?

[15:44:44.0384] <guybedford>
Kris Kowal: that is definitely an option, and something to be discussed further

[15:45:09.0999] <guybedford>
We don't currently have a strong opinion on this

[15:45:16.0105] <guybedford>
definitely keen for more feedback

[15:45:35.0338] <Kris Kowal>
I would say that is less an option and more a requirement, in my opinion.

[15:46:01.0337] <Kris Kowal>
Unless web assembly modules are indeed merely resources.

[15:47:12.0831] <Kris Kowal>
And I think that decision pivots on whether there‚Äôs one or more sensible ways to interpret WASM as a participant in a module graph.

[15:48:56.0629] <Kris Kowal>
If there‚Äôs more than one way, I would lean more in the ‚Äúweb assembly modules are assets / resources that we want vetted for CSP, but require further programming to participate in a JS module graph‚Äù direction.

[15:49:51.0672] <Kris Kowal>
But if there‚Äôs one way that always works, I‚Äôd lean more toward putting them on equal footing with *static* module blocks and `ModuleSource` instances.

[15:53:05.0573] <guybedford>
From a loader perspective - if we used synthetic module wrappers that would involve using dynamic import to reentrantly load the dependencies. By making Wasm first-class module records they could participate in the module graph equally in the same execution algorithm as opposed to being treated as having reentrant dependencies which would otherwise deadlock for cycles

[15:53:44.0050] <guybedford>
Wasm doesn't strictly need cycles, but the point stands that it would involve user instrumentation for loader support using reentrant dynamic imports that could deadlock

[15:54:15.0961] <guybedford>
a lot of the questions are about expectations and how much work they will be to support in loaders certainly

[15:54:26.0104] <Kris Kowal>
That‚Äôs a lot to unpack.

[15:54:59.0450] <Kris Kowal>
I don‚Äôt think literal deadlock is on the table in any framing.

[15:55:39.0944] <Kris Kowal>
I also don‚Äôt think reentrance is on the table.

[15:57:03.0419] <Kris Kowal>
importHooks are recursive but non-reentrant. They would only run under dynamic import during the load phase, for growing the working set of module records.

[15:58:16.0596] <Kris Kowal>
I think WASM modules being inherently acyclic is handy, but I also think it‚Äôs possible to fully virtualize even ESM, including cycles.

[16:01:39.0273] <guybedford>
There are a bunch of complexities making them first class to delve into, perhaps we can go through the exercise some time

[16:01:39.0824] <Kris Kowal>
I think we agree actually that WASM modules _ideally_ participate in module graphs on equal footing with module sources. But, if there‚Äôs no sensible default behavior, virtualized module sources are certainly option. Caridy would point out though that virtual module sources don‚Äôt serialize and probably would also lose their CSP metadata.

[16:02:14.0310] <guybedford>
definitely could workshop some example workflows around loader instrumentation and Wasm

[16:02:18.0796] <Kris Kowal>
So ideally we find a good default behavior.

[16:02:20.0143] <guybedford>
and work through tradeoffs

[16:02:32.0466] <guybedford>
ideally having Dan and Caridy present for that would help

[16:02:49.0024] <Kris Kowal>
That would be a good exercise.

[16:04:59.0719] <guybedford>
I don't get the feeling it is too pressing right now

[16:05:09.0646] <guybedford>
or needed before this coming meeting

[16:05:31.0439] <guybedford>
but if it's something on your critical path there happy to arrange anytime

[16:08:33.0187] <Kris Kowal>
I think that‚Äôs necessary to answer the question of whether `WebAssembly.Module` should be reified as a module source or a resource. I‚Äôm pretty sure we need to know the answer before stage 2 since that constitutes a big difference in what you‚Äôd be proposing.

[16:09:15.0100] <Kris Kowal>
 * I think that‚Äôs necessary to answer the question of whether `WebAssembly.Module` should be reified as a module source or a resource. I‚Äôm pretty sure we need to know the answer before stage 2 since that constitutes a big difference in what you‚Äôd be proposing.

[16:11:05.0010] <Kris Kowal>
That is, if import reflection is `import module x from 'x.wasm'`, that‚Äôs only coherent if `x` is a module source and requires no further programming to participate in a module graph.

[16:19:19.0948] <Kris Kowal>
Follow-up question: Is this example coherent in your mental model:
```
import module x from 'x.wasm';
await import(x);
```

[16:20:06.0477] <Kris Kowal>
Oh, I know the answer already. That depends on the same exercise.

[16:22:52.0741] <guybedford>
yes exactly that is the question I think

[16:22:57.0208] <Kris Kowal>
(I don‚Äôt think the example is coherent, but if your answer is yes, that _would_ put WASM modules on equal footing with module blocks and imply that a WebAssembly.Module is linkable without further programming.)

[16:23:04.0894] <guybedford>
coherency is exactly the question there

[16:23:10.0071] <guybedford>
if we want Wasm and JS to work the same

[16:23:14.0078] <guybedford>
or if there will be this difference

[16:24:44.0550] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm sure that your motivating use case is adequately addressed just by carrying CSP into WebAssembly.Module and never incorporating it in a JS module graph.

[16:26:09.0061] <Kris Kowal>
I guess it would be gross but not broken if `import module x from 'x.wasm'` was completely different than `import module y from 'y.js'`.

[16:27:31.0277] <Kris Kowal>
But if that‚Äôs the case and a WASM module can‚Äôt participate in a JS graph, you wouldn‚Äôt need anything from 262. WASM could just as well be a module that exports a CSP vetted default WebAssembly.Module.

[16:44:58.0503] <guybedford>
the problem is how you obtain the `WebAssembly.Module`, also this is a feature Wasm modules themselves in the ESM integration want to be able to get ahold of

[16:45:09.0674] <guybedford>
Wasm wants to be able to import its own records

[16:45:25.0845] <guybedford>
that's an important aspect of the component model

[16:46:15.0210] <guybedford>
there are also further static benefits and static security benefits over arbitrary URL fetching

[16:46:33.0378] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm reading https://github.com/WebAssembly/esm-integration/tree/main/proposals/esm-integration

[16:47:05.0478] <guybedford>
See also https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/Explainer.md#ESM-integration

[16:48:00.0866] <Kris Kowal>
Oh, wow. This depends on `as` notation.

[16:48:33.0999] <Kris Kowal>
Oh, I‚Äôm going to assume this just isn‚Äôt synced with your most recent work.

[16:49:53.0818] <guybedford>
yes exactly

[16:50:31.0405] <Kris Kowal>
Am I right that `esm-integration` answers the question that WASM does have a sensible way to integrate in a JS graph?

[16:51:19.0338] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm reviewing your draft rn, and I noticed that your primary motivating case is the cases where the default integration isn‚Äôt sufficient.

[16:51:24.0734] <guybedford>
yes although the esm integration is currently awaiting our progress on reflection to move forward

[16:51:39.0009] <Kris Kowal>
Is it dependent?

[16:52:05.0868] <guybedford>
in some sense the solution space is dependent in that this is what is needed ergonomically right now

[16:56:52.0306] <Kris Kowal>
Well, I understand your conundrum better now.

[16:58:27.0491] <Kris Kowal>
Let‚Äôs assume `import module x from 'x.any'` produces `x` such that `x instanceof ModuleSource` and `import defer x from 'x.any'` produces `x` such that `x instanceof Module`.

[16:58:41.0822] <shu>
there is an inferior solution the wasm folks can choose without our involvement at all, by making the default kind of thing returned by `import 'x.wasm'` a `WebAssembly.Module` instead of an instance

[16:58:47.0025] <shu>
it breaks symmetry down the road, however

[16:59:36.0333] <Kris Kowal>
Right, I was about to propose that strawman until I started reading esm-integration, which suggests there is a reasonable default interpretation of a WASM module as it participates in a JS graph, importing and exporting.


2022-07-07
[17:00:13.0649] <shu>
i'm not sure it's reasonable, more that it's the path of least resistance

[17:00:15.0471] <Kris Kowal>
And taking esm-integration at face value, and stated assumption, there‚Äôs already a reasonable interpretation.

[17:01:37.0916] <Kris Kowal>
So, the question is whether it can be simultaneously true that `x instanceof ModuleSource` and `x instanceof WebAssembly.Module`, such that the former could be fed back into the JS module graph, and the latter could be used for manual instantiation.

[17:02:19.0603] <shu>
i don't think that can be done for the existing `WebAssembly.Module`

[17:02:34.0327] <Kris Kowal>
That seems like a problem.

[17:03:21.0839] <shu>
there are solutions the acceptability of which i'm unsure

[17:03:27.0906] <shu>
WebAssembly.Module.fromModuleSource

[17:03:36.0657] <shu>
WebAssembly.Module2

[17:04:12.0709] <shu>
WebAssembly.Instance.instantiateFromModuleSource

[17:04:15.0353] <guybedford>
this was where I was wondering if we might be able to define an internal slot on `WebAssembly.Module` that provided this relation in an internal way to 262

[17:04:21.0465] <guybedford>
that could then be incorporated into the esm integration

[17:04:41.0138] <shu>
yeah, where does the `instanceof` requirement come from

[17:04:48.0536] <shu>
it could be a deep-ish sense of duck typing

[17:04:51.0203] <guybedford>
or the wasm js api

[17:05:48.0139] <Kris Kowal>
Yeah, I was not precise. I specifically mean that x be a ‚Äúmodule source‚Äù if it could later be passed to `new Module(source, ...rest)` and the prototype chain is not material.

[17:06:23.0132] <shu>
ah, then i think that is possible

[17:06:29.0256] <Kris Kowal>
And I‚Äôve got slides in the overflow that `source` should fall through to a protocol.

[17:07:12.0854] <Kris Kowal>
For user virtualized module sources. That‚Äôs the escape hatch for defining bindings for, say, CommonJS in userspace.

[17:07:54.0722] <Kris Kowal>
So, yeah, stuffing an internal slot on `WebAssembly.Module` such that it could be digested by `new Module()` is acceptable to me.

[17:08:17.0024] <Kris Kowal>
Not just acceptable, a condition of my acceptance.

[17:08:59.0370] <Kris Kowal>
And guybedford we can punt on how to link ESM into a JS graph. That‚Äôs answered https://github.com/WebAssembly/esm-integration/tree/main/proposals/esm-integration

[17:10:13.0036] <Kris Kowal>
At least, I trust it does.

[17:10:19.0486] <guybedford>
my hope was not to have to flesh out such a protocol as a stage 2 requirement here by treating it as somewhat under-specified for now

[17:10:29.0690] <guybedford>
but if the feedback is to more clearly work this through we can investigate options

[17:10:59.0984] <guybedford>
I think the protocol likely belongs in the spec for the module source object

[17:11:22.0187] <Kris Kowal>
For stage 2, I can be satisfied if we know we‚Äôre not painting ourself into a corner, regardless of what‚Äôs captured in the proposal text.

[17:12:01.0916] <Kris Kowal>
The protocol for virtual modules is orthogonal and I only point it out because I expect the Module constructor to have overloads on its `source` argument.

[17:12:49.0858] <Kris Kowal>
Which is to say that it can brand check for `ModuleSource`, then brand check for `WebAssembly.Module`, then fall through to a virtualized module protocol.

[17:14:27.0968] <Kris Kowal>
The other wrinkle is that implementing a bundler or file watcher for all this is substantially easier of all ‚Äúmodule source‚Äù types have a uniform way to access the module source‚Äôs list of import specifiers.

[17:15:11.0898] <Kris Kowal>
As currently sketched, `moduleSource.bindings` is the same shape for `ModuleSource` and the protocol for virtual module sources.

[17:21:15.0699] <Kris Kowal>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> Which is to say that it can brand check for `ModuleSource`, then brand check for `WebAssembly.Module`, then fall through to a virtualized module protocol.

Or rather, check for [[StaticModuleRecord]] internal slot, which the former two would have.

[17:21:44.0096] <guybedford>
Yeah so the WebAssembly way of doing this is quite unique - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Module/imports

[17:22:24.0495] <Kris Kowal>
Yeah, we‚Äôve discussed a protocol oriented around `source.constructor.imports(source)`, which we agreed would be Special‚Ñ¢.

[17:22:35.0365] <Kris Kowal>
 * Yeah, we‚Äôve discussed a protocol oriented around `source.constructor.imports(source)`, which we agreed would be Special‚Ñ¢.

[17:26:08.0919] <Kris Kowal>
Is there a reason that `WebAssembly.Module.prototype` couldn‚Äôt have a `bindings` accessor to throw bundlers a bone?

[17:28:02.0228] <guybedford>
I don't know, if we're adding branding in theory we could add other things, Dan might know more about what's involved here since he did a lot of the JS API spec work I believe

[17:29:38.0267] <Kris Kowal>
Well, I owe you a review, and I‚Äôm at least oriented. I can leave a note.

[17:30:02.0060] <Kris Kowal>
Thanks for playing Wheel of Spec Fiction‚Ñ¢.

[17:31:35.0134] <guybedford>
haha sure we've covered a lot! will take the winnings for now indeed

[17:33:21.0310] <Kris Kowal>
I have just noticed the pun in spec fiction. Who‚Äôs responsible for this!)/

[17:37:01.0485] <guybedford>
well we just call it specification I guess to begin with :P

[18:00:57.0227] <Kris Kowal>
I mean, this is clearly a pun on SpecFic, the category containing both Fantasy and SciFi https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speculative_fiction

[19:50:17.0083] <Kris Kowal>
guybedford Luca Casonato I provided a review. I think it would be good to settle the question before plenary, whether a reflected module captures a module instance or a module source instance. I am pretty sure it must be the latter and the front matter for the proposal states the former. https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-reflection/pull/21#pullrequestreview-1030806802

[21:28:50.0814] <guybedford>
Kris Kowal: I think it would align with Wasm better if the JS reflection can be treated as supporting arbitrary linkage as opposed to only host linkage

[21:29:06.0503] <guybedford>
Since that is effectively what you get with `WebAssembly.Module` so that would be the symmetric choice

[21:29:13.0708] <guybedford>
I'm open to the representation options though

[21:29:23.0378] <guybedford>
at the moment that object is still a big `?`

[21:29:43.0083] <guybedford>
thanks for the review, I've pushed some updated, do take another look if you have a moment

[21:33:39.0750] <Kris Kowal>
> <@guybedford:matrix.org> Kris Kowal: I think it would align with Wasm better if the JS reflection can be treated as supporting arbitrary linkage as opposed to only host linkage

I‚Äôm not sure what this means. What‚Äôs the limitation of what?

[21:34:18.0272] <guybedford>
Kris Kowal: a `WebAssembly.Module` has imports in its binary

[21:34:26.0928] <guybedford>
which are not yet satisfied and can be linked against arbitrary dependencies

[21:34:33.0746] <guybedford>
 * which are not yet satisfied and can be linked against arbitrary dependencies

[21:34:52.0421] <guybedford>
So the natural choice would be to aim for symmetry on that with the JS side

[21:35:13.0654] <guybedford>
That a JS reflection would not resolve its imports yet, but could still be instrumented against arbitrary dependencies

[21:35:25.0803] <guybedford>
depending on what hook is passed

[21:35:38.0493] <guybedford>
we could of course break that symmetry

[22:00:26.0122] <Kris Kowal>
That‚Äôs consistent with my interpretation of a module source.

[22:02:04.0874] <Kris Kowal>
That multiple `Module` instances can use a common source and link in different ways according to the provided `importHook`.

[22:03:30.0067] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy‚Äôs `Module` object is very similar to the `ModuleInstance` you proposed at the last plenary. The big difference is that dynamic import kicks off the loader / linker, and that uses the import hook to discover the linkage. It has the nice property that a single hook can be used for both static and dynamic import.

[22:04:06.0503] <Kris Kowal>
So instead of having to provide an `importHook` for dynamic import and a `link` method for static import, you just have `importHook`.

[22:04:47.0754] <Kris Kowal>
And the small difference is that each `Module` instance has an independent memo for the results of `importHook`.

[22:05:20.0978] <Kris Kowal>
It doesn‚Äôt account for assets and module reflection though, so I imagine we‚Äôll have to revisit that.

[22:09:33.0902] <guybedford>
one step at a time I guess

[22:10:06.0596] <Kris Kowal>
Yeah, assets and import reflection imply a different design for virtualized host hooks on `Module`. More like `fetchHook(specifier, importMeta) => Promise<TypedArray>` followed by `reflectHook(bytes, reflectionType) => unknown`

[22:10:42.0325] <guybedford>
right, I want to put some more thought to the cache questions in due course as well around this for reflection

[22:10:59.0231] <guybedford>
for now it's explicitly flagged as a spec todo to define the exact cache behaviours

[22:11:50.0395] <Kris Kowal>
I must say in the quiet of my heart that I‚Äôd hoped that virtualized module sources and externalizing the concern of interpretation such that each module has exactly one reification would put the issue of assets to bed.

[22:13:17.0413] <Kris Kowal>
And this wakes the old MIME-type / extension mismatch issue that drove import assertions into its current shape.

[22:13:46.0930] <Kris Kowal>
So, perhaps reification of module source is special and not general.

[22:14:35.0488] <Kris Kowal>
But even then, the host hooks have to separate loading from instantiation.

[22:16:18.0084] <Kris Kowal>
e.g., `loadHook(specifier, importMeta) => Promise<AbstractModuleSource>` and `importHook(source, importMeta) => Module`.

[22:22:08.0732] <guybedford>
the hope is to leave the internal invariants and host hooks in a better state that we found them

[22:22:18.0549] <guybedford>
I think between the specs that is achievable

[22:22:25.0939] <guybedford>
but it will take some formalizing yet

[04:29:46.0215] <littledan>
> <@guybedford:matrix.org> @littledan thanks for the feedback, we see module reflection as laying down an approach that asset reflection and deferred execution can follow in, as opposed to the original more abstract view of a generical mechanic. Trying to be practical and use case focused while treating generalization as a possibility but not to over-generalize. We are keen to see asset references and deferred module loading move forward, we are just trying to focus our efforts in a way that keeps scope clear in the staging process. We currently are underspecifying what exactly the shape of the reflection object is though, and treating this as a detail to be refined as opposed to prescribing it at this point. The way we do this for now is to entirely delegate it to a host hook, then the hope for Stage 3 would be to follow-up with an exact definition for JS that will hopefully have progressed by then. We need the host hook regardless for Wasm though.

Yes, going incrementally via the stage process seems generally good, but could you say more about why you decided to make the cut here exactly? I mean, presumably the host hook underspecification approach you describe would work just as well for asset references. Are there particular anticipated sources of complexity from asset references that you see as simpler for module reflection?

[04:32:16.0793] <littledan>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> My feeling is that trusting the sender and receiver to have identical importHook behavior is possible but fragile. But, if we have blocks, static blocks, `Module` and `ModuleSource` to work with, I think that the ecosystem will have everything it needs to come up with more sensible protocols for sending modules to workers.

In the web, I‚Äôm not sure if we need any ‚Äútrusting‚Äù here: the hooks simply are the same for native modules, and maybe we should just throw a DataCloneError if you try to serialize a Module with any other importHook

[04:34:44.0785] <littledan>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> That is to say, I predict that `worker.import(module {})` will look good in examples but will otherwise have limited utility. But, that‚Äôs okay with me.

Well‚Ä¶ this is much of the stated motivation of the proposal that Surma and I presented to committee and that the committee agreed to Stage 2 on. I am surprised to see so much skepticism on this point and interesting in understanding more about why you feel this way; I wonder what went wrong in communication that we didn‚Äôt uncover this disagreement sooner.

[04:37:51.0190] <littledan>
Wasm itself prohibits module import cycles, but the Wasm ESM integration proposal is designed to permit them between JS and Wasm‚Ä¶ but maybe it does so in too flaky of a way

[05:01:05.0384] <littledan>
I guess now that I hear more about how the caching for the import happens within the Module, rather than a single Module producing a separate instance somewhere else‚Ä¶ I understand why you all have been calling this construct ModuleInstance over the years 

[07:44:03.0294] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'm re-reading the slides Kris Kowal presented yesterday, and I have a question.

In the example with a custom module source, I see that the `initialize` method receives `importMeta`. Does it also receive `importHook`? I'm trying do understand if/how Source Text Static Module Records could be expressed in terms of Virtual Static Module Records. For example, how could I create a custom module source that uses my own ecmascript engine and delegates module loading to the ecmascript host it's running in?

[07:59:24.0905] <Kris Kowal>
I think the answer is yes. JavaScript module sources can be virtualized. It‚Äôs also possible to implement `ModuleSource` as an object that satisfies the virtual module source protocol. But, I imagine that would come at a performance cost that isn‚Äôt acceptable.

[08:01:31.0444] <Kris Kowal>
For JavaScript to JavaScript bindings, I think engines are free to implement linkage as literal pointers to shared slots. Through the virtual module source protocol, reading and writing bindings would have to pass through the module imports namespace exotic object, which would be slow on top of slow.

[08:02:16.0958] <nicolo-ribaudo>
> But, I imagine that would come at a performance cost that isn‚Äôt acceptable.

Yes, I was thinking about something like eshost rather than a production thing.

[08:02:31.0070] <Kris Kowal>
You‚Äôre right that `initialize` needs to receive a dynamic import function. It would also have to be the one bound to the module instance‚Äôs memo.

[08:03:19.0416] <Kris Kowal>
And providing either `importMeta` or `dynamicImport` can be contingent on whether the module declares that it needs them with `needsImport` and `needsImportMeta` on its module source object.

[08:03:28.0278] <Kris Kowal>
So, an options bag.

[08:03:54.0227] <Kris Kowal>
I believe they can also participate in cycles.

[08:04:18.0938] <Kris Kowal>
The module imports namespace object was an idea that the folks on XS came up with.

[08:04:22.0468] <Kris Kowal>
It‚Äôs quite clever.

[08:04:50.0694] <Kris Kowal>
And they implemented it, and it works, so my confidence in the idea is pretty high.

[08:04:54.0138] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I guess my custom module source would also have to know how the import hook works, because it might need to pass a custom `importMeta` object when calling `importHook` to make sure that the "base URL" is correct and not the one of the entrypoint module.

[08:05:55.0890] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Ok well no, because `importHook` would return a _new_ module instance

[08:06:01.0463] <Kris Kowal>
Yes.

[08:14:22.0641] <littledan>
I'd like to invite Rob Palmer here, but I don't seem to have permission to invite people here

[08:15:02.0158] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Isn't this room public? So Rob just needs the link

[10:11:05.0184] <guybedford>
littledan: it's more about handling the consensus process itself, we don't want to try to do more than absolutely necessary to avoid unnecessary frictions. But yes asset references themselves should be relatively simple to spec and we are aiming to design host invariants that can work with that as well. The shape of the asset object may or may not be specified in ECMA-262, I'd personally like to see it in EMCA-262.

[10:18:21.0393] <littledan>
OK, I'd prefer to err on the side of trying to understand the full solution we're going after, even if having the design discussion risks some friction. I'm looking forward to hearing more of your thoughts on how asset references should work.

[10:19:38.0221] <littledan>
 * OK, I'd prefer to err on the side of trying to understand the full solution we're going after, even if having the design discussion risks some friction. I'm looking forward to hearing more of your thoughts on how asset references should work.

[10:22:15.0048] <littledan>
Once we understand that, it will help us prioritize what to push forward in the stage process and ship

[10:22:47.0861] <littledan>
I'm fine with Stage 2 for a bunch of this work while we're still in an undetermined state, though

[10:39:21.0649] <Kris Kowal>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> Well‚Ä¶ this is much of the stated motivation of the proposal that Surma and I presented to committee and that the committee agreed to Stage 2 on. I am surprised to see so much skepticism on this point and interesting in understanding more about why you feel this way; I wonder what went wrong in communication that we didn‚Äôt uncover this disagreement sooner.

importHooks are not equivalent between workers if they have either different import maps or service workers. Could even vary based on differences in local DNS.

[10:41:23.0428] <Kris Kowal>
However, consider the possibility that the receiver can create an importHook that calls back to the sender.

[10:59:16.0631] <Kris Kowal>
Daniel Ehrenberg: I don‚Äôt mean to communicate an absolutist stance. Even locally, there‚Äôs no guarantee that a module graph is consistent over time. But, on one extreme, sending a module to a worker is maximally fragile and on the other minimally fragile. I believe you and I agree that we‚Äôre converging on a foundation that is sufficient for implementing either extreme. And I think that we also agree that sending a worker and depending on out-of-band coordination of importHooks is a maximally fragile solution on that spectrum. And emphatically, I personally don‚Äôt object.

[11:00:24.0764] <Kris Kowal>
 * Daniel Ehrenberg: I don‚Äôt mean to communicate an absolutist stance. Even locally, there‚Äôs no guarantee that a module graph is consistent over time. But, on one extreme, sending a module to a worker is maximally fragile and on the other (sending a module with an RPC/IPC handle to the original loader) minimally fragile. I believe you and I agree that we‚Äôre converging on a foundation that is sufficient for implementing either extreme. And I think that we also agree that sending a worker and depending on out-of-band coordination of importHooks is a maximally fragile solution on that spectrum. And emphatically, I personally don‚Äôt object.

[11:01:56.0082] <Kris Kowal>
It‚Äôs also possible to have a sender and receiver with different but equivalent import maps, another case in which just sending the source and meta would work fine.

[11:08:23.0081] <shu>
what you call fragility i just think of "misconfiguration"?

[11:10:01.0795] <shu>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> In the web, I‚Äôm not sure if we need any ‚Äútrusting‚Äù here: the hooks simply are the same for native modules, and maybe we should just throw a DataCloneError if you try to serialize a Module with any other importHook

throwing seems good to me

[11:11:07.0019] <shu>
maximal virtualization is an explicit non-goal for me

[11:12:03.0011] <shu>
experience has shown me here that those APIs are a world of pain for implementation complexity and security

[11:52:52.0426] <littledan>
It's a bit hard to think about this problem space while generalizing over all well-behaved importHooks since we don't really have much of a definition for well-behaved here, but I'd venture: any well-behaved mechanism for serializing a ModuleInstance will need to be somewhat tightly coupled with the importHook

[11:54:34.0154] <littledan>
Although we'll be able to enforce some invariants by construction or through checks: if we ship a loader API, it will be possible to use importHook badly/confusingly, just as it is possible to use Proxy and even Object.defineProperty badly/confusingly today. These misuses would lack some desired properties but still be deemed OK by the system. I don't think that's fatal.

[11:55:09.0354] <littledan>
for the import map case: yes, I think the import maps would need to be sent "as part of" importMeta conceptually

[11:56:26.0763] <Kris Kowal>
I agree about the limitations of enforcing good behavior of import hooks. For every behavior we would want to prevent there is an equal but opposite valid use.

[11:56:56.0661] <littledan>
(well, the other case for import maps is to consider that they are closed over by the importHooks, i.e. just interpreted from what's loaded on the other side, since importHooks would not be part of HTML serialization. This is also coherent but I don't like it as much.)

[11:57:01.0404] <Kris Kowal>
I think it‚Äôs reasonable to fall back to local consistency per-instance.

[11:57:16.0868] <littledan>
 * (well, the other case for import maps is to consider that they are closed over by the importHooks, i.e. just interpreted from what's loaded on the other side, since importHooks would not be part of HTML serialization. This is also coherent but I don't like it as much.)

[11:58:47.0274] <Kris Kowal>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> for the import map case: yes, I think the import maps would need to be sent "as part of" importMeta conceptually

Hanging a reference to an import map on importMeta so the receiver can construct the appropriate importHook is a nice idea.

[11:59:01.0877] <littledan>
well, it can be an internal slot...

[11:59:09.0734] <littledan>
I dunno how much introspection we want to provide

[11:59:22.0688] <Kris Kowal>
Same.

[12:55:36.0331] <littledan>
Given the light TC39 agenda, I wonder if we should have an hybrid modules breakout session

[13:10:26.0597] <Kris Kowal>
I have a 90' slot to talk about compartments that I was thinking to repurpose as a Module Harmony preso, in the same vein as the last two presentations, if folks here are alright with me representing us collectively.

[13:11:07.0710] <Kris Kowal>
That is, here‚Äôs a strawman / holistic vision and here are some of the open questions.

[13:12:31.0383] <Kris Kowal>
I think that leaves a decent chunk of time for discussion, but it‚Äôs not like I‚Äôve ever finished a preso.

[13:13:02.0555] <littledan>
I think that, in this upcoming meeting, we aren't yet ready to present ourselves as a group beyond "we've been meeting and discussing these proposals"; it's premature to announce a holistic vision of the group, as opposed to just certain members of the group

[13:13:27.0695] <Kris Kowal>
Sure, so I should stick to, here‚Äôs where I think we‚Äôre headed with compartments.

[13:14:49.0351] <Kris Kowal>
I don‚Äôt think that precludes ‚Äúhow this might relate to blocks, deferred execution, and module reflection‚Äù but I agree that it‚Äôs too early to claim I‚Äôve internalized all the champions‚Äô perspectives.

[13:14:56.0870] <littledan>
yes, let's leave it to proposal champions to decide which open questions they want to bring to the committee. For example, I'd be a little uncomfortable having an all-committee debate on whether module blocks are ModuleSource or Module, at least just right now

[13:15:10.0142] <Kris Kowal>
I don‚Äôt feel like I‚Äôm far off, but I wouldn‚Äôt presume.

[13:15:55.0228] <Kris Kowal>
Oh, indeed. That would not be a fun conversation.

[13:16:10.0671] <littledan>
yeah I trust that you have a good understanding of at least Caridy's and my views on that particular question, but it's more that, we can let the individual champion decide when to encourage a large group discussion to draw a conclusion.

[13:18:38.0561] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy has a good intuition about what plays well at plenary, I think. I‚Äôll listen harder for the next couple weeks.

[13:19:30.0218] <shu>
simply, there is no agreement on the foundations yet, so i agree with dan's intuition to not present as a group nor open the floor to questions like "is this (e.g. ModuleSource) a good foundation"

[13:19:30.0990] <Kris Kowal>
For example, Caridy‚Äôs intuition for this last presentation was that we should only cover the first half üòâ Timing worked out, there.

[13:20:52.0479] <shu>
IME committee, or any gathering of strong technical folks, will have a tendency to engage on technical grounds if you lay out a technical question in front of them

[13:21:06.0361] <shu>
you should do that if you think you'll get good signals from it

[13:21:45.0703] <shu>
but it feels premature in that the signals you want are from the other champions right now

[13:21:56.0112] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm pretty confident that we don‚Äôt need to discuss that particular question at plenary.

[13:22:09.0278] <shu>
 * you should do that if you think you'll get good signals from it

[13:22:47.0070] <shu>
that said there are larger motivation questions i would like plenary feedback on

[13:23:31.0109] <Kris Kowal>
Pray tell, and I‚Äôd be glad to ask.

[13:24:01.0006] <Kris Kowal>
Also will circulate a deck among folks here.

[13:24:11.0894] <shu>
1) is it a shared goal among us that we want ESM to be the graph that ties together disparate resources in a JS app?

[13:24:29.0911] <shu>
2) how widely shared a goal is virtualization, given standing disagreement from myself

[13:28:12.0659] <littledan>
this sounds more like a breakout session than a presentation

[13:28:40.0025] <shu>
fair

[13:29:15.0298] <shu>
for 1) especially, i only have a mild position

[13:29:16.0700] <littledan>
they do sound like very important questions to discuss, but it also sounds very complicated to run the discussion in a productive way

[13:30:00.0123] <littledan>
I think for 1) we could get a good read if someone presented on asset declarations and what they would mean for applications and tooling...

[13:30:05.0923] <shu>
 * for 1) especially, i only have a mild position

[13:30:14.0716] <shu>
i wish some of the MSFT folks would come

[13:30:17.0742] <shu>
they care so much about this i feel like

[13:30:28.0101] <littledan>
you mean the edge people working on html modules and such?

[13:30:30.0314] <littledan>
or which ones?

[13:30:33.0604] <shu>
yes, i mean those

[13:30:36.0777] <shu>
and constructable css whatevers

[13:30:51.0763] <littledan>
maybe we can get Dan Clark to come to this chatroom at least?

[13:31:01.0765] <shu>
indeed i'd love his opinions

[13:31:22.0497] <shu>
but it is also not clear to me who at MSFT is driving that programme

[13:31:27.0731] <littledan>
2) might come out in discussion on compartments... I guess none of the other proposals really get into virtualization, do they?

[13:31:31.0775] <shu>
is it dan? 

[13:32:32.0068] <shu>
i think currently that is correct, no other proposals really get into virtualization. there are one-off discussions of hooking points here and there

[13:44:51.0897] <Kris Kowal>
The compartments proposal does have an answer for virtualization that could be served a la carte.

[13:45:16.0432] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy‚Äôs subset does not include virtualization at all, and I think we will want to lead with that.

[13:46:43.0170] <Kris Kowal>
But module source virtualization is the key to unlocking many experiments in user code. Currently, we use this feature in Endo to create a bridge back to CommonJS that is coherent with bundling and other tools.

[13:47:45.0609] <Kris Kowal>
Reifying execution contexts can also be served a la carte.

[13:51:10.0206] <littledan>
importHook is exactly what you might call "virtualization"

[13:51:25.0057] <littledan>
like, it's more virtualized than what some hosts provide now

[13:55:41.0598] <Kris Kowal>
Pardon, yes, that is one of the two kinds of virtualization on the table.

[13:55:44.0072] <Kris Kowal>
 * Pardon, yes, that is one of the two kinds of virtualization on the table.

[13:56:15.0989] <Kris Kowal>
importHook virtualizes load and link. Virtual module sources virtualize initialization.

[13:56:20.0458] <littledan>
sorry, what is module source virtualization?

[13:56:58.0340] <Kris Kowal>
Module source virtualization is a module source protocol that allows a Module to be constructed from arbitrary other module types, e.g., CommonJS or assets.

[13:57:53.0693] <Kris Kowal>
`new Module({ bindings: [{export: 'default'}], initialize(namespace) { namespace.default = 42 }})`

[13:58:48.0036] <Kris Kowal>
That is separable if there‚Äôs appetite for one kind of virtualization but not the other.

[14:00:00.0117] <Kris Kowal>
Probably should be separated simply because it is separable and has different motivating use cases.

[14:02:45.0022] <littledan>
hmm should that be `new ModuleSource`?

[14:03:22.0765] <Kris Kowal>
No. The argument is a module source protocol.

[14:03:42.0147] <littledan>
oh I see

[14:03:42.0424] <Kris Kowal>
But I can see that being a valid interpretation.

[14:03:53.0358] <littledan>
yeah I like the idea of separating these two types of virtualization

[14:03:58.0987] <Kris Kowal>
In Endo, we borrowed Guy Bedford‚Äôs heuristic module exports lexer which is part of Node.js and trained it to also analyze imports. It generates a bindings array and we construct a function body wrapper.

[14:04:03.0532] <littledan>
they should hopefully be orthogonal, right?

[14:04:13.0662] <Kris Kowal>
They are fully orthogonal.

[14:04:14.0062] <littledan>
well, I guess you need importHook to tie them together

[14:04:17.0470] <Kris Kowal>
And fully coherent.

[14:04:32.0199] <Kris Kowal>
Pardon, module source virtualization does depend on module virtualization.

[14:04:33.0960] <littledan>
I mean, this is fully "step 2", you can't start with module source virtualization

[14:04:38.0465] <Kris Kowal>
But not the other way around.

[14:04:43.0899] <littledan>
right OK I think I get it

[14:05:29.0842] <Kris Kowal>
And execution context depends on step 1 but not step 2.

[14:06:12.0818] <Kris Kowal>
With reification of execution context and module link and load virtualization, we can build an ESM-only Compartment in user code.

[14:06:35.0247] <Kris Kowal>
 * With reification of execution context and module link and load virtualization, we can build an ESM-only Compartment in user code.

[14:07:36.0915] <Kris Kowal>
A reified execution context is just `new ExecutionContext(globalThis, importHook)` and has `{eval, Function, Module}`.

[14:08:52.0287] <Kris Kowal>
 * A reified execution context is just `new ExecutionContext(globalThis, importHook)` and has `{eval, Function, Module}`.

[14:09:31.0874] <Kris Kowal>
The `importHook` being for dynamic import in scripts.


2022-07-08
[07:56:33.0048] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I have a question that came up when thinking about module blocks, and maybe you already thought about it for the `Module` class. When importing in realm B a `Module` created in realm A, do you think that it should be evaluated in realm A or in realm B?
With cloning (or re-wrapping its `ModuleSource` in a new `Module`) it's obviously in realm B, but with same-domain iframes you can pass an object to another realm without cloning it.

[07:56:48.0498] <nicolo-ribaudo>
 * I have a question that came up when thinking about module blocks, and maybe you already thought about it for the `Module` class. When importing in realm B a `Module` created in realm A, do you think that it should be evaluated in realm A or in realm B?
With cloning (or re-wrapping its `ModuleSource` in a new `Module`) it's obviously in realm B, but with same-domain iframes you can pass an object to another realm without cloning it.

[08:19:44.0197] <Kris Kowal>
The module constructor should have a [[Context]] execution context internal slot that binds it to a realm.

[08:20:09.0166] <Kris Kowal>
That would be how we recover the isolation feature for compartments, which are also many-per-realm.

[08:20:32.0959] <Kris Kowal>
I believe this is analogous to `Function` constructor.

[08:20:50.0691] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Ok yes, thanks üëç It's exactly how functions work.

[08:21:25.0730] <Kris Kowal>
Our hope is to carve out a proposal for `ExecutionContext(globalThis, importHook)` that would yield a new set of evaluators, `eval`, `Function`, and `Module`.

[08:21:43.0107] <Kris Kowal>
Since that‚Äôs the last bit that makes it possible to implement compartments.


2022-07-09
[17:45:22.0808] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm working on a sketch of what a user code Compartment looks like through the lens of Module, ModuleSource, and ExecutionContext https://gist.github.com/kriskowal/f48fb0c68a70ccbde7cd32c85cddc63c

[17:45:29.0908] <Kris Kowal>
 * I‚Äôm working on a sketch of what a user code Compartment looks like through the lens of Module, ModuleSource, and ExecutionContext https://gist.github.com/kriskowal/f48fb0c68a70ccbde7cd32c85cddc63c

[20:21:58.0290] <Jack Works>
Have a question

[20:22:26.0025] <Jack Works>
for example, I have a `const a = new Module(source, hook, meta)`

[20:23:20.0646] <Jack Works>
in which level it will execute twice? in different Realm? or in different `Module` constructor?

[20:23:27.0237] <Jack Works>
 * in which level it will execute twice? in different Realm? or in different `Module` constructor?

[20:35:48.0302] <Kris Kowal>
Once per object identity.

[20:58:39.0318] <Jack Works>
even it is used in multiple realms?

[20:58:52.0904] <Kris Kowal>
That is my understanding.

[20:59:37.0752] <Kris Kowal>
My understanding at the moment is that a module block corresponds to a `Module` instance, so locally it will only initialize once. But, every time a `Module` gets serialized and deserialized, it emerges as a new `Module` instance on the far side. The only parts of the module instance that are serialized are the `source` and `importMeta`, to the extent that `importMeta` is serializable, and the module instance is not memoized by the receiver.

[21:00:22.0038] <Kris Kowal>
The new `Module` instance would inherit the receiver execution environment‚Äôs import hook.

[21:01:40.0369] <Kris Kowal>
The module instance also has the [[Context]] internal slot that binds it to the original realm, so the namespace‚Äôs objects are guaranteed to be from the originating realm.

[21:02:31.0719] <Kris Kowal>
If we‚Äôre talking about same-origin `<iframe>` realms, still once because single identity.

[21:02:49.0600] <Kris Kowal>
If we‚Äôre talking about shadow realms, once per transit.

[21:04:21.0313] <Kris Kowal>
Though with shadow realms, assuming Static Module Records are treated as immutable after construction, transmitting between shadow realms or even between threads of the same process can be optimized. You still get fresh instances of the `Module` object, though.

[21:06:16.0688] <Kris Kowal>
And the reasoning for module fragments is that every module fragment has a unique `ModuleSource` consisting of the fragment and all the fragments it transitively depends upon, so each fragment is effectively equivalent to a single module block.

[21:08:59.0418] <Kris Kowal>
I think there are still open questions about the local semantics, like whether each evaluation of a module fragment produces a new `Module` instance, thus a new identity, thus a new namespace instance.

[21:09:58.0745] <Kris Kowal>
I suspect that‚Äôs the only reasonable answer, since module instances are superficially mutable. Having a singleton would create a covert communication channel.

[21:11:22.0226] <Kris Kowal>
The one hard rule is that a module block can‚Äôt write itself into the remote module map using the local key.

[22:08:40.0977] <littledan>
> <@jackworks:matrix.org> even it is used in multiple realms?

I can‚Äôt understand a case where multiple realms would permit importing the same Module. It seems like it should typically throw.

[22:13:43.0928] <Jack Works>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> I can‚Äôt understand a case where multiple realms would permit importing the same Module. It seems like it should typically throw.

Create 2 modules in 2 realms, and the import hook returns the same module object, does that module return by the import hook evaluate twice? 

[22:19:57.0822] <littledan>
My contention is that a well-behaved importHook would not do that 

[22:21:27.0898] <Jack Works>
But it is possible 

[22:22:25.0490] <littledan>
It simplifies a lot of things to have each Module run at most once

[22:23:22.0802] <littledan>
It is possible to use a Proxy in a poorly behaved way. We will need to define some kind of semantics for this case, but it doesn‚Äôt need to be pretty/perfect IMO

[22:23:27.0089] <littledan>
* It is possible to use a Proxy in a poorly behaved way. We will need to define some kind of semantics for this case, but it doesn‚Äôt need to be pretty/perfect IMO

[22:23:45.0079] <littledan>
* It simplifies a lot of things to have each Module run at most once

[22:24:34.0714] <Kris Kowal>
You‚Äôre suggesting that the dynamic import from one realm would fail to import a module from a realm with the wrong [[Context]]? (This seems fine to me.)

[22:25:51.0976] <Kris Kowal>
I too am fine with rough edges for same-origin-iframes. The language doesn‚Äôt set a high bar for sensible interactions with mixed intrinsics.

[22:27:38.0092] <littledan>
+10000

[22:28:26.0338] <littledan>
We may want to think about if we want a generic mechanism to serialize a Module over a ShadowRealm boundary but the answer isn‚Äôt ‚Äúit‚Äôs the same one‚Äù

[22:29:59.0705] <Kris Kowal>
I‚Äôm also not sure that there‚Äôs any meaningful way to distinguish dynamic import of a module from one realm to another. My impression is that using dynamic import to kick off the module system is not much more than a cute way to spell `Module.prototype.importMe`. The module object is important, the `import` ‚Äúfunction‚Äù doesn‚Äôt exist.

[22:31:09.0612] <littledan>
Right, since this is done by the importHook

[22:31:59.0249] <Kris Kowal>
Caridy did pass an idea in my direction that the `import` syntax _could_ convey a referrer. I think we both realized that it shouldn‚Äôt.

[22:32:36.0431] <Kris Kowal>
There‚Äôs just no need since the module has an associated importMeta, and it would cause more problems than it would solve.

[22:33:22.0977] <littledan>
As much as I love dynamic scoping, this situation calls for lexical 

[22:33:43.0723] <Kris Kowal>
Can‚Äôt tell if joke, but I‚Äôll chuckle anyway.

[22:34:14.0621] <littledan>
I do love dynamic scoping‚Ä¶ I don‚Äôt imagine I have many allies here in that

[22:35:07.0693] <Kris Kowal>
I might have been at some point. Maybe when I‚Äôm writing `bash`. I‚Äôd like to think I‚Äôd enjoy abusing gensyms and dynamic scope in Lisp.

[22:35:55.0671] <Kris Kowal>
Good feature for doing donuts in the parking lot and feeling clever.

[22:37:32.0541] <littledan>
Well it‚Äôs kinda what react-redux is based on, and I can‚Äôt think of a better design

[22:37:58.0477] <littledan>
Factor makes heavy use of dynamic scoping too‚Ä¶ helps when you have a stack-based language 

[22:38:56.0580] <Kris Kowal>
What the hell, I‚Äôll join you deep off-topic‚Ä¶

[22:39:36.0660] <Kris Kowal>
At some point when I was between jobs, I did an experimental component-based web framework I called Guten Tags.

[22:40:24.0029] <Kris Kowal>
It‚Äôs sort of a ‚ÄúWhat if HTML smelled more like Lisp‚Äù

[22:41:07.0910] <Kris Kowal>
So a tag on one level was effectively a function application that produced a component at that position in the surrounding context.

[22:41:24.0686] <Kris Kowal>
And on the level below that, tags were arguments, which would produce fragments.

[22:42:05.0727] <Kris Kowal>
And you‚Äôd just import tags from other Guten Tag modules, which of course also looked like HTML.

[22:42:56.0882] <Kris Kowal>
But it had a sort of hybrid of lexical and dynamic scoping inspired by CSS selectors like `:hover`.

[22:43:29.0926] <Kris Kowal>
So, imagine that HTML element id‚Äôs are lexically scoped.

[22:44:21.0272] <Kris Kowal>
But HTML elements are just instances of fragments from a different lexical closure that has its own id namespace.

[22:44:55.0199] <Kris Kowal>
So, it had this notation that was like `lexicalId:dynamicId`

