2023-03-10
[09:53:31.0395] <yulia>
I've added the "epics" topic to the agenda and will get some slides together.

[10:59:53.0772] <guybedford>
I just added an agenda item to the SES meeting schedule for next week, to discuss some module instance functions that might help to avoid reentrancy between C++ and JS during instantiation / linking time

[11:00:03.0305] <guybedford>
if the meeting is still on, would be great to discuss it further


2023-03-14
[08:40:39.0805] <Jack Works>
hi sorry I don't engage the meeting recently

[08:40:50.0191] <Jack Works>
hope I can caught up what happened these days

