2023-04-04
[16:17:54.0291] <Justin Ridgewell>
Looks like April 18 16:00-17:00 UTC is going to be the winner?

[16:18:10.0219] <Justin Ridgewell>
I wonder if we might do weekly meetings, though, instead of every-other-week?

[16:18:31.0790] <Justin Ridgewell>
There are quite a few issues open issues that we need to work through

[16:34:54.0081] <littledan>
Sure, works for me


2023-04-05
[23:15:45.0626] <Chengzhong Wu>
Works for me too!

[03:21:01.0980] <Andreu Botella>
For me it conflicts with a meeting, but the meeting can probably be rescheduled

[03:23:40.0013] <Andreu Botella>
 * For me it conflicts with a meeting, but that meeting can probably be rescheduled


2023-04-07
[21:09:02.0776] <Justin Ridgewell>
Chris de Almeida: I think you were made an owner of the TC39 cal?

[21:09:14.0925] <Justin Ridgewell>
Is it possible for you to move the new AsyncContext meeting into TC39?

[08:01:12.0822] <Chris de Almeida>
sure.  TZ is UTC or... ?

[08:04:57.0418] <Justin Ridgewell>
Actually, Jordan helped with this last night

[08:09:41.0668] <Chris de Almeida>
sure -- it appears the meeting IS in UTC.  notably, it will not shift for DST.  is that an issue for anyone?

[08:10:58.0546] <Justin Ridgewell>
Hasn't DST past?

[08:11:17.0795] <Justin Ridgewell>
I think it's fine to use UTC since everyone won't shift times at the sameâ€¦ time.

[08:12:37.0832] <Chris de Almeida>
but it means anyone in countries observing DST, will have the meeting at a different time half the year

[08:14:07.0117] <Chris de Almeida>
so for example, for me right now, the meeting is at 11, but in November it will move to 10 and then in March move back to 11 

[08:15:57.0927] <Chris de Almeida>
usually we would want these meetings to observe DST because most of us (I think) are in TZs that observe DST.  we don't all change over at the same time, but this usually will only manifest in two meetings per year ending up at a different time for people in one of the TZs

[09:00:11.0476] <Chris de Almeida>
we'd be moving into the left column in November

[09:02:17.0186] <Justin Ridgewell>
Let's worry about this in Nov?

[09:02:31.0594] <Justin Ridgewell>
Even if we were to schedule this in a different timezone, we're still going to have this headache

[09:02:38.0609] <Justin Ridgewell>
Who's DST do we use?

[09:02:49.0377] <Justin Ridgewell>
US and EU don't share an end date

[09:02:52.0431] <Justin Ridgewell>
China doesn't have DST

[09:03:32.0185] <Chris de Almeida>
US/EU -> two meetings per year ending up at a different time for people in one of the TZs

[09:05:25.0360] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@jridgewell:matrix.org> Even if we were to schedule this in a different timezone, we're still going to have this headache

just a question of what would be the least disruptive.  what's the utilitarian optimization here

[10:58:54.0335] <littledan>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> just a question of what would be the least disruptive.  what's the utilitarian optimization here

My experience is that programming against UTC ends up being more disruptive because conflicts are scheduled in local time. Anyway, agree that we should worry about this in November.


2023-04-11
[09:17:40.0969] <Chris de Almeida>
FYI -- module harmony meeting has moved to every Tuesday (and duration reduced to 1 hour).  as such, there is now a bi-weekly conflict w/ async context meeting.  mentioning this as there is some overlap with participants

[09:20:00.0088] <ljharb>
why was it changed to weekly?

[09:21:49.0234] <Chris de Almeida>
I don't know -- appears to be a decision they came to previously.  meeting is going on right now. I can ask if there is time

[09:47:08.0564] <Chris de Almeida>
- quicker iteration
- not enough meetings between plenary meetings
- reduce duration
- have 3 meetings with Kris Kowal prior to plenary


2023-04-18
[10:10:24.0822] <Andreu Botella>
For the scheduling of the following meetings: every two weeks (today, two weeks from now, etc.) I'm not available before ~15:00 UTC because it conflicts with another meeting

[13:11:57.0951] <littledan>
I briefly sync'd with bakkot on his thoughts on the generator problem. He explained that he'd prefer to see the original context restored after yield returns. He cited his argument at https://matrixlogs.bakkot.com/TC39_Delegates/2023-03-23#L173 . I find Kevin's argument persuasive to me so far, but I feel like I'm missing something in Justin's arguments in the other direction. So let's continue discussing that next week.

