2023-10-17
[10:00:07.0174] <Justin Ridgewell>
We don't have any agenda items today, is there anything to discuss?

[10:01:05.0292] <littledan>
Let's review Chengzhong's and Andreu's progress

[10:01:11.0792] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
I'm attending BlinkOn

[10:01:26.0706] <littledan>
OK you won't attend?

[10:01:46.0587] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
I won't

[10:01:50.0990] <littledan>
OK thanks

[10:01:52.0501] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
btw, I'll be giving a talk on Thursday about the interaction of AsyncContext and task attribution

[10:02:06.0774] <littledan>
great

[10:02:19.0957] <littledan>
do you have any slides we could review?

[10:02:54.0228] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
I don't have them finished yet, I'll share them tomorrow


2023-10-18
[07:04:21.0425] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
hey, here's a mostly-but-not-quite-finished version of my slides for tomorrow: https://abotella.pages.igalia.com/async-context-integration/

[07:04:23.0394] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
PTAL

[07:04:48.0889] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
Yoav Weiss: I'd appreciate your thoughts as well

[07:15:26.0738] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
this is mostly targeted at folks working on the browser engine side, rather than the JS engine

[07:23:48.0468] <littledan>
This is a really clear explanation of the relationship between AsyncContext and task attribution.

[07:24:52.0181] <littledan>
I'm excited for what discussion this presentation will bring

[07:26:35.0842] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7, at BlinkOn)>
I didn't realize "They're the same picture" was a clear explanation of that relationship üòÑ


2023-10-20
[07:36:36.0503] <Andreu Botella (UTC-7)>
the talk I gave at BlinkOn yesterday: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=60-8DGUx1VY

[08:02:19.0314] <Chengzhong Wu>
Nice presentation!


2023-10-22
[16:04:13.0760] <littledan>
It is excellent to hear that Alex Russell is so supportive. I think we should learn more about his thoughts here, eg in an email thread or we could invite him to one of our regular meetings. OTOH I don‚Äôt think we should add syntax; I am curious why he suggested it.

[16:04:47.0786] <littledan>
The ideal case is that we can motivate Edge people to work with us on implementing AsyncContext

[16:05:27.0245] <littledan>
Alex can probably leverage a lot of resources on the edge side. Maybe also for devtools and html expertise 

[16:11:15.0714] <littledan>
I do think the Q&A demonstrated some continued gaps in people understanding what the proposal was for. ‚ÄúLocal storage‚Äù continues to throw web people off, for example. I don‚Äôt know if there is a general fix here, maybe just repetition 

[16:16:06.0492] <littledan>
Maybe talking about scheduler yield would also have helped


2023-10-31
[10:01:53.0447] <littledan>
Meeting?

[10:02:32.0365] <Chengzhong Wu>
I'm in the waiting room..

[10:03:16.0776] <Justin Ridgewell>
Sorry, one min

[10:45:44.0953] <Chengzhong Wu>
littledan  is going to present AsyncContext at NodeConfEU: https://www.nodeconf.eu/daniel-ehrenberg-asynccontext-observability-in-javascript-through-tc39-and-wintercg üöÄ

