2023-11-01
[11:00:09.0514] <Kris Kowal>
yulia: Apropos of MarkM’s analyses of AsyncContext, this is Mark’s work https://github.com/endojs/endo/pull/1424, discussion 1 https://youtu.be/vECr5IDJzpg, and discussion 2 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28wfHOWCROo


2023-11-05
[23:54:42.0354] <littledan>
Hey, should we participate in this group? https://docs.google.com/document/d/16Vsdh-DM72AfMg_FIt9yT9ExEWF4A_vRbQ3jRNBe09w/edit#heading=h.9bhcivx2kxus

[01:55:43.0495] <Chengzhong Wu>
The Client Instrumentation SIG is primarily focused on the general API and data structure of OpenTelemetry required for efficient data collection from terminals like web page, mobile app. For instance, how to describe a user session and how to co-relate a session to a span.

[01:58:02.0318] <Chengzhong Wu>
The discussion may be generalized and language-agnostic because works in OpenTelemetry specification need to be feasible to implemented in various languages and runtimes.

[01:58:56.0144] <Chengzhong Wu>
Do you find any topic that you are interested and we should connect with the folks in the SIG?

[11:50:14.0022] <littledan>
These docs seem to indicate the interest of that group in this space: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/#status-and-releases

[11:50:23.0790] <littledan>
(The warning)


2023-11-06
[19:15:27.0612] <Chengzhong Wu>
Well, yes, OpenTelemetry client instrumentation is still working in progress. The client includes browser, android, iOS mobile app and the work includes the RUM data model and the semantic convention of event attributes, for instance, an http span should contain a "http.request.method" attribute.

[19:17:08.0028] <Chengzhong Wu>
It's high level design of realtime user monitoring.

[19:18:21.0978] <Chengzhong Wu>
 * It's high level design of real user monitoring.

[00:05:33.0337] <littledan>
Isn’t AsyncContext part of that?

[01:11:51.0698] <Chengzhong Wu>
The client instrumentation SIG is defining a specification for all clients, including browser, android, etc. A better space to discuss a specific language feature would be the SIG for each language implementation, as in the JS SIG: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tCyoQK49WVcE-x8oryZOTTToFm7sIeUhxFPm9g-qL1k/edit


2023-11-14
[09:01:30.0726] <Chengzhong Wu>
I'm in the waiting room. Today's agenda is pretty light

[09:02:42.0077] <Justin Ridgewell>
There’s a new meet link, I don’t think there should be a waiting room anymore

[09:03:03.0645] <Justin Ridgewell>
Justin Ridgewell has invited you to join a video meeting on Google Meet.

Join the meeting: https://meet.google.com/ecv-jrxj-yav

Dial in (audio only): ‪(US) +1 573-342-3008‬ PIN: ‪548 708 553#‬
Other numbers: https://tel.meet/ecv-jrxj-yav?pin=4818587527755

[09:03:15.0602] <Justin Ridgewell>
* There’s a new meet link in the invite, I don’t think there should be a waiting room anymore

[09:03:34.0936] <Justin Ridgewell>
* Justin Ridgewell has invited you to join a video meeting on Google Meet.
Join the meeting: https://meet.google.com/ecv-jrxj-yav

[09:03:48.0528] <Justin Ridgewell>
* https://meet.google.com/ecv-jrxj-yav

[09:03:59.0292] <Chengzhong Wu>
It seems I still need to ask to join

[09:10:08.0926] <Chengzhong Wu>
The meeting time is one hour earlier for people have changed from daylight saving time.

[09:16:18.0264] <Chengzhong Wu>
Is the new time still a good fit for us?

[09:18:44.0854] <Chengzhong Wu>
 * The meeting time is one hour earlier for people have changed from daylight saving time. The calendar item didn’t suffer from the daylight-saving time change. We may need to re-arrange the call time if people have conflicts with the new meeting time.

[13:25:13.0223] <littledan>
oh I didn't attend the meeting since I joined the link on the calendar invite (10 minutes late) and no one was there and I failed to check here

[13:25:25.0033] <littledan>
maybe I used the outdated link, idk

[13:25:29.0717] <littledan>
how's everything going for people?


2023-11-15
[18:49:11.0936] <Chengzhong Wu>
As mentioned last time, https://github.com/tc39/proposal-async-context/pull/63 expands on the Snapshot use case and the function parameters.

[14:18:03.0165] <littledan>
> <@legendecas:matrix.org> As mentioned last time, https://github.com/tc39/proposal-async-context/pull/63 expands on the Snapshot use case and the function parameters.

That patch is great; I am glad it landed. Expanding out a bit more, why snapshot is really necessary, would still be good.

[14:19:31.0502] <littledan>
Like just explaining why userland queues come up 


2023-11-16
[06:48:39.0439] <Chengzhong Wu>
Sure!


2023-11-21
[06:44:38.0080] <Yoav Weiss>
Hey folks! I wrote a bit on different semantics for task attribution https://blog.yoav.ws/posts/task_attribution_semantics/

[06:45:07.0904] <Yoav Weiss>
A lot of that is similarly related to AsyncContext 

[06:45:12.0500] <Yoav Weiss>
I'd love your thoughts

[07:32:32.0839] <Andreu Botella>
I'd been wondering about whether registration semantics really is the semantics you want for events, especially since for things like `setTimeout`/`queueMicrotask`/`scheduler.postYield`, the times you'd really rely on registration semantics would be for things semantically similar to async continuation

[07:32:40.0578] <Andreu Botella>
but I haven't yet had time to write down my thoughts on it

[07:32:58.0332] <Andreu Botella>
and this post could be a good base to build on top of


2023-11-26
[12:53:40.0416] <ljharb>
any reason not to cancel the meeting during plenary week?

