[
{"content":{"body":"sideshowbarker: ok. I was thinking we could do a \"group update\" to present what has happened in HTML in the past year (or since we last gave an update at tpac). maybe a meeting could also be useful, maybe other WGs want to discuss things with us in person","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@sideshowbarker:mozilla.org\">sideshowbarker</a>: ok. I was thinking we could do a &quot;group update&quot; to present what has happened in HTML in the past year (or since we last gave an update at tpac). maybe a meeting could also be useful, maybe other WGs want to discuss things with us in person","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.message":[{"body":"sideshowbarker: ok. I was thinking we could do a \"group update\" to present what has happened in HTML in the past year (or since we last gave an update at tpac). maybe a meeting could also be useful, maybe other WGs want to discuss things with us in person","mimetype":"text/plain"},{"body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@sideshowbarker:mozilla.org\">sideshowbarker</a>: ok. I was thinking we could do a &quot;group update&quot; to present what has happened in HTML in the past year (or since we last gave an update at tpac). maybe a meeting could also be useful, maybe other WGs want to discuss things with us in person","mimetype":"text/html"}]},"ts":1656575418994,"senderName":"zcorpan","senderId":"@zcorpan_:matrix.org","id":"$8nxMcO9sNv2KddNwQ1ZQmp-CYnq06xiY0fpVJcJX1lo"}
]