2021-08-06
[08:19:43.0092] <davethegr8>
do we have any agenda or action items for today? things have been pretty quiet lately

[08:30:37.0288] <ptomato>
I haven't been at the last few, so I'm not sure what's been on the agenda recently, but I'm available today if we're meeting


2021-08-11
[15:56:48.0568] <davethegr8>
Hey folks, what are next steps and timeline for nvc training? last I remember was that we needed to get sign off from Ecma, what's the status on that? I touched base with the trainer we selected, and the existing proposal has expired at this point. We can renew, but we'll likely have a 10% cost increase.


2021-08-12
[00:11:13.0281] <littledan>
If you write a letter explaining the training, I can cc in Ecma management

[00:11:22.0181] <littledan>
None of us wrote this letter yet

[11:47:53.0868] <davethegr8>
When we last talked in June, we were going to partner up to finalize the request to Ecma. I'm fine writing up a document, but I'll need for you to provide:

- Structure/outline
- Necessary goals

I'll also need to know what the expected timeline is for a decision from Ecma. We may incur cost increases if we take much longer.

I've created https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/issues/31 for us to use to work through. Can you please add a outline & goals to that issue?

[11:58:28.0482] <littledan>
davethegr8: I'm really sorry for my delay here

[12:00:14.0317] <littledan>
For the structure, the main thing is that it has to be a PDF explaining
- Why we need NVC training, and how it will benefit the committee (maybe including an example of how peer organizations like LF regularly provide this)
- The budget of the selected organization
- A short explanation of our selection process, demonstrating we are exceeding the initially budgeted amount

[12:00:47.0221] <littledan>
The letter should be addressed to the Ecma Secretariat and Management, and ideally signed by the chairs

[12:01:27.0754] <littledan>
it may take six months from when they receive the letter to when the funding comes through. We'll see. I'm really sorry again about the delay. We can write in the letter about the risk that the budget will go up over time.

[12:01:37.0791] <littledan>
it might be faster but I can't promise it

[12:01:56.0621] <littledan>
oh oops you wanted me to write this in the issue! copying

[12:03:37.0648] <littledan>
davethegr8: Is this the information you need?

[12:12:19.0551] <davethegr8>
That's a perfect start, thanks! I'll draft up something for review

[12:15:48.0255] <littledan>
thanks!


2021-08-20
[12:40:05.0388] <mpcsh>
sorry friends, our meetings keep falling on slack's monthly friday off. I'm updating my calendar strategy so that I stop missing these.

[12:40:25.0197] <mpcsh>
are folks still happy with the standing 2-week schedule, or should we reduce the frequency of our meetings?

[12:40:43.0109] <mpcsh>
 * are folks still happy with the standing 2-week schedule, or should we reduce the frequency of our meetings?

[13:01:32.0354] <ptomato>
I'd be happy to keep 2-weeks


2021-08-31
[21:08:06.0831] <mpcsh>
hey folks, I'm going to miss friday yet again - mourning the passing of my _other_ grandmother. this summer has not been kind. I'll be missing plenary as well, sadly... see you all on the 17th ðŸ’œ

[07:16:46.0195] <ptomato>
I'm so sorry to hear that Mark! my sincere condolences to you and your family

[07:21:44.0202] <ryzokuken>
sorry to hear mpcsh, please take care ðŸ’œ

[07:24:17.0741] <ryzokuken>
 * sorry to hear mpcsh, please take care ðŸ’œ

[07:41:28.0043] <leobalter>
My condolences, mpcsh. Please take your time as you need it!

[07:41:39.0630] <davethegr8>
my condolences @mpcsh :(

