2021-04-02
[10:02:15.0839] <jasew>
Sorry I wasn’t around today, it’s a holiday here in the UK

[10:02:50.0722] <davethegr8>
No probs, I just emailed everyone with next steps for NVC training :)

[10:03:29.0063] <davethegr8>
seems like the UK is always on holiday lol. I'

[10:03:51.0204] <davethegr8>
ve got a mentee in St Albans and we do a lot of schedule juggling


2021-04-08
[11:03:56.0932] <davethegr8>
https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130

[11:08:37.0109] <littledan>
I put something on the agenda for next meeting to establish the process for funding requests

[11:08:49.0823] <littledan>
and noted NVC as a need

[11:09:05.0603] <littledan>
in general, I think the Reflector is the better place to file those issues, though

[11:14:06.0727] <davethegr8>
I checked with Rob before submitting, Admin and business was one of his suggestions (the other being email)

[11:15:09.0920] <littledan>
oh, I see, OK

[11:15:25.0662] <littledan>
an issue is indeed better than email IMO


2021-04-13
[13:38:59.0697] <davethegr8>
Rob / The chair team is asking if we want to prepare something re: NVC training for plenary that fits within the process @littledan is presenting next week.

[13:39:17.0990] <davethegr8>
Thoughts from anyone?

[14:23:04.0828] <littledan>
I like that idea, but maybe it's too late with the agenda deadline. Does the process I'm proposing make sense to you?

[14:35:56.0738] <davethegr8>
If that's what ecma needs, that's what ecma needs haha. I have the same concern about agenda deadline, but if I remember correctly the chairs are ok including non-stage advancing agenda items closer to the deadline.

[14:37:03.0643] <davethegr8>
I don't think NVC would need much time on the agenda, maybe 10-15 min, and if we can include it this time we can potentially get approval in time for our other longer tc39 meetings this yuear

[14:46:47.0314] <littledan>
yes, I think this is a good idea

[14:46:53.0253] <littledan>
the other thing is that the agenda overall is rather light

[16:26:19.0930] <davethegr8>
I'll get a presentation prepared for the formal ask, hopefully be able to share tomorrow

[16:35:01.0643] <littledan>
you have a very solid proposal posted on admin-and-business so I'm excited for the presentation

[16:52:22.0890] <davethegr8>
Haven't read this yet, but related to us: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/13/technology/racist-computer-engineering-terms-ietf.html


2021-04-14
[12:00:25.0982] <davethegr8>
Adding time for our proposal: https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/967


2021-04-16
[09:08:03.0936] <littledan>
joining in a minute or two

[09:08:06.0238] <littledan>
sorry for being late

[09:08:12.0574] <davethegr8>
np

[09:08:30.0011] <ptomato>
same here


2021-04-18
[15:06:31.0440] <davethegr8>
Tweaked the slides a little, here's a preview: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1a5Qqvk-Jw7sytuSDY1dMYEFEFyHxZ2ZX/view?usp=sharing

[16:13:17.0188] <mpcsh>
> <@davethegr8:matrix.org> Tweaked the slides a little, here's a preview: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1a5Qqvk-Jw7sytuSDY1dMYEFEFyHxZ2ZX/view?usp=sharing

looks great!


2021-04-19
[07:11:45.0056] <littledan>
Oh, we should probably propose the adoption of Matrix at some point...

[07:11:54.0441] <littledan>
was someone going to get in touch with the chair group about that?

[07:19:46.0231] <Aki>
i did not add it to my slides bc i hadn't gotten that contact

[07:20:45.0889] <littledan>
fair

[07:33:56.0876] <Aki>
to be clear: i look forward to it! 


2021-04-21
[08:17:52.0427] <littledan>
I think the next constructive step would be to discuss explicitly with the trainers that we have a requirement that this training be completely non-spiritual, and see if they have some kind of assurance of that that we can share with Waldemar


2021-04-22
[09:50:10.0160] <davethegr8>
Kathy's response to Waldemar's comment/question is up at https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130#issuecomment-825011281

[10:50:04.0038] <littledan>
excellent


2021-04-23
[18:47:13.0649] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> was someone going to get in touch with the chair group about that?

hi! this was me. this todo has been languishing behind the pattern matching work. I will email a proposal to the chairs in the next week or so, hopefully to be presented at the May plenary.


2021-04-30
[09:10:55.0739] <mpcsh>
are folks coming? Philip and I are on the call

[09:11:04.0817] <davethegr8>
oh snap one sec

[09:15:42.0245] <littledan>
Sorry I am busy today

[09:15:50.0474] <littledan>
Make sure to follow up with the chairs about Matrix

[09:16:00.0563] <littledan>
And we need to formulate this letter to Ecma about NVC

[09:29:21.0166] <davethegr8>
imo the issue in Admin & Business should be enough for that. Is there something else necessary?

[11:57:33.0460] <littledan>
Well, we have to write them an email with this information plus the chairs' conclusion from our committee discussion and a specific answer to Istvan's question

[11:58:04.0317] <littledan>
And we actually have to make it in the form of a word document or pdf that we can upload to their server

[16:10:12.0875] <mpcsh>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> hi! this was me. this todo has been languishing behind the pattern matching work. I will email a proposal to the chairs in the next week or so, hopefully to be presented at the May plenary.

posted! https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/142#issue-873451999

[16:14:45.0323] <ryzokuken>
mpcsh: awesome!

