2021-01-06
[16:42:18.0618] <davethegr8>
what happened to our repository? I can't find it at tc39/inclusion-working-group anymore

[16:42:49.0503] <davethegr8>
 * what happened to our repository? I can't find it at tc39/inclusion-working-group anymore

[16:44:32.0039] <davethegr8>
ugh, nm, holiday break logged me out everywhere


2021-01-15
[08:22:37.0998] <jasew>
Sorry about today had some overruns 


2021-01-20
[15:22:53.0550] <mpcsh>
https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/922

[15:27:04.0883] <mpcsh>
^ requested a timeslot for us. will anyone be available this weekend and early next week to help work on the presentation? and would anyone like to co-present?


2021-01-21
[01:12:32.0864] <ryzokuken>
Thanks mpcsh 

[02:22:17.0342] <jasew>
Was a community created?

[02:22:37.0873] <ryzokuken>
I think we deleted the old one?

[02:22:58.0788] <ryzokuken>
Atleast I left it from both my accounts.

[02:23:32.0233] <ryzokuken>
the idea is to create one _after_ the communities v2 design work is finished, the current communities feature is very much WIP

[02:23:34.0529] <jasew>
Is it possible for someone to join a community and see all channels without having to manually join them? Like Zulip, discord et al

[02:24:06.0200] <ryzokuken>
hm, not in the current version of communities, no

[02:25:52.0426] <ryzokuken>
but let me look into communities v2, that one seems rather bold and ambitious, so probably.

[02:34:39.0876] <jasew>
i can't get into general

[02:34:44.0383] <jasew>
"Element failed to get the protocol list from the homeserver. The homeserver may be too old to support third party networks." 

[02:34:59.0093] <ryzokuken>
wut

[02:35:08.0512] <ryzokuken>
`/join #tc39-general:matrix.org `

[02:35:21.0714] <ryzokuken>
 * `/join #tc39-general:matrix.org `

[02:35:26.0635] <ryzokuken>
this should work

[02:35:41.0072] <ryzokuken>
your account and the room are on the same server so the error seems weird haha

[02:39:24.0771] <littledan>
I think https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/351 is written a bit too confidently. I think we don't want to say it's ready for adoption/migration, but that it's ready for prototyping by the committee and broader feedback

[02:39:43.0060] <littledan>
I'd encourage you to edit this message, because I think that if you don't, there will be a number of poor reactions to it from the committee

[02:40:06.0824] <littledan>
remember that the committee did not delegate the task of choosing this to us. We're just some people proposing something

[02:40:07.0366] <jasew>
mpcsh ^

[02:40:14.0181] <jasew>
 * mpcsh: 

[02:40:24.0770] <jasew>
 * mpcsh ^

[02:40:48.0793] <littledan>
also, you should clarify what #tc39-general is. Is it the same as #tc39? Why didn't you stick with the same name?

[02:41:46.0576] <littledan>
the message there should also explain the rationale

[02:42:05.0793] <littledan>
also, remember, we're not a WG, we're an ad-hoc group. Don't call us a WG, since WGs have been officially established by the committee, which we weren't

[02:42:45.0866] <littledan>
talking about "re-litigation" is premature since that thread did not arrive at a conclusion

[02:44:00.0812] <littledan>
OK, if mpcsh is not online, I guess I'll post a comment to this thread giving my preferred framing

[02:44:31.0801] <jasew>
who's admin of the tc39:matrix.org community?

[02:44:56.0088] <ryzokuken>
I was, but I left it. I think any of the current members may now delete it.

[02:45:23.0018] <ryzokuken>
I real somewhere that the community can be deleted after the admin leaves but I'm not quite sure.

[02:45:33.0525] <ryzokuken>
the admin settings didn't allow me to delete it though

[02:45:54.0572] <jasew>
its all greyed out for me i can't add rooms or do anything with it

[02:48:57.0103] <ryzokuken>
I guess we could all just leave it?

[02:49:12.0703] <ryzokuken>
or I could ask on #matrix:matrix.org 

[02:51:22.0340] <yulia>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> I think https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/351 is written a bit too confidently. I think we don't want to say it's ready for adoption/migration, but that it's ready for prototyping by the committee and broader feedback

I would strongly back what dan has mentioned here and in the issue.

[02:52:25.0051] <littledan>
OK, I changed the issue title and explained my framing. I feel like it'd be a little inappropriate for me to edit the OP (even if I have permissions to) but I encourage mpcsh to do so.

[02:52:48.0203] <yulia>
the approach that is currently being taken runs a very strong risk of antagonizing the committee and undermining your efforts. I do not believe that the discussion was finished in the previous issue, with regards to investigating other platforms. The approach of closing the issue and taking executive action is fundamentally non-inclusive. 

[02:53:46.0036] <yulia>
A better approach is, as suggested -- to frame this as an experiment. 

[02:54:13.0166] <littledan>
ad-hoc groups are not consensus-seeking bodies

[02:54:29.0183] <littledan>
so we should not talk about coming to consensus

[02:56:51.0494] <littledan>
OK, so we should discuss here whether we should edit mpcsh 's post before others see it, since we agree that it was poorly written and doesn't represent the group

[02:57:10.0153] <littledan>
I think we can edit it as long as we say, at the top, in italics or something, that we did so

[02:58:33.0756] <jasew>
Yeah littledan go for it. it could be a long while before he see's your message

[02:58:36.0941] <jasew>
 * Yeah littledan go for it

[02:58:48.0100] <jasew>
 * Yeah littledan go for it. it could be a long while before he see's your message

[03:02:12.0438] <yulia>
I think, in the interest of this being successful the best action will be to edit the post. perhaps in the future it might make sense to run this kind of content through the group ahead of time to catch this earlier?

[03:02:40.0206] <littledan>
yes. I'll draft an edit and post it in this chat

[03:16:01.0624] <ryzokuken>
jasew: the matrix.org homeserver does seem rather slow today, you were right.

[03:16:02.0249] <ryzokuken>
secondly, there is no way to delete a community from Element yet.

[03:16:02.0718] <ryzokuken>
https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/develop/docs/admin_api/delete_group.md

[03:16:04.0004] <ryzokuken>
but we can use the admin API

[03:16:04.0482] <ryzokuken>
but I'd say we could just all leave it for now and revisit.

[03:30:55.0699] <littledan>
OK, here's my draft message:

_Note: the following message was edited by other members of the ad-hoc inclusion group_

We've been discussing the pros and cons of different chat platforms in #316. Although there's no clear winner, there is definitely interest in adopting something which is easier to use, if only to include the entire committee: Many TC39 delegates have trouble getting on IRC, and as a result, are not able to participate.

The choice of chat platform is ultimately an inclusion issue: It's important that TC39 communication channels are accessible to all TC39 delegates, and the use of IRC is a significant barrier, especially for new members, both technically and financially.

No chat platform is perfect, but we see the following advantages to Matrix:
- It's easy to [create a Matrix account](https://app.element.io/#/register) for free.
- Matrix channels are all logged publicly at https://view.matrix.org/ (if they are on the Matrix homeserver and open to read).
- Matrix has high-quality Web and mobile clients and a high level of stability and interoperability.
- We are not aware of TC39 delegates living in jurisdictions where it is blocked.
- Matrix has very expressive moderation tools.
- Matrix can be bridged to IRC, so we avoid losing connection with folks who stay on IRC (though you'll get a better user experience on a Matrix client).
- Matrix supports DMs, E2E encryption, ad-hoc public or private small group chats, etc., so it's likely to be useful for communication of delegates beyond the main committee channels.
- As a bonus: Like IRC, Matrix is open source, open protocol and federated.

The ad-hoc inclusion group has been prototyping Matrix internally, and would like to propose that we prototype it more broadly among the committee. We created a few channels to get started:
- [#tc39-general:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org))-- the equivalent of #tc39
- [#tc39-delegates:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org/)) -- the equivalent of #tc39-delegates
- [#tc39-inclusion:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org/)) -- the place the ad-hoc inclusion group has been having discussions

We will present on this topic in the January 2021 TC39 meeting for some initial feedback, for potential later adoption by the committee.

[03:33:20.0910] <yulia>
I would add -- Matrix can be bridged to IRC, so the communication will not be broken into two groups ?

[03:33:26.0296] <yulia>
as I can see people objecting on that ground

[03:35:21.0810] <jasew>
Im not sure, we've had lengthy conversations about bridging and the conclusion felt like it wasn't worth it. Even if it was on the basis of keeping people happy. It doesn't work well (from feedback we had and can be an extra burden to keep working)

[03:35:54.0561] <yulia>
i would see it as a temporary measure, but i see what you mean. it is a pain

[03:36:16.0300] <littledan>
 * OK, here's my draft message:

_Note: the following message was edited by other members of the ad-hoc inclusion group_

We've been discussing the pros and cons of different chat platforms in #316. Although there's no clear winner, there is definitely interest in adopting something which is easier to use, if only to include the entire committee: Many TC39 delegates have trouble getting on IRC, and as a result, are not able to participate.

We in the ad-hoc inclusion group consider this to be an inclusion issue: It's important to us that TC39 communication channels are accessible to all TC39 delegates, and the use of IRC is a significant barrier, especially for new members, both technically and financially.

No chat platform is perfect, but we see the following advantages to Matrix:
- It's easy to [create a Matrix account](https://app.element.io/#/register) for free.
- Matrix channels are all logged publicly at https://view.matrix.org/ (if they are on the Matrix homeserver and open to read).
- Matrix has high-quality Web and mobile clients and a high level of stability and interoperability.
- We are not aware of TC39 delegates living in jurisdictions where it is blocked.
- Matrix has very expressive moderation tools.
- Matrix can be bridged to IRC, so we avoid losing connection with folks who stay on IRC.
- Matrix supports DMs, E2E encryption, ad-hoc public or private small group chats, etc., so it's likely to be useful for communication of delegates beyond the main committee channels.
- As a bonus: Like IRC, Matrix is open source, open protocol and federated.

The ad-hoc inclusion group has been prototyping Matrix internally, and would like to propose that we prototype it more broadly among the committee. We created a few channels to get started:
- [#tc39-general:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org))-- the equivalent of #tc39
- [#tc39-delegates:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org/)) -- the equivalent of #tc39-delegates
- [#tc39-inclusion:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org/)) -- the place the ad-hoc inclusion group has been having discussions

We will present on this topic in the January 2021 TC39 meeting for some initial feedback, for potential later adoption by the committee.

[03:36:23.0047] <littledan>
yeah, I added IRC

[03:36:41.0160] <littledan>
I think "can be bridged" is a great framing. We're not going to do the bridging or recommend it to anyone

[03:37:00.0096] <littledan>
 * OK, here's my draft message:

_Note: the following message was edited by other members of the ad-hoc inclusion group_

We've been discussing the pros and cons of different chat platforms in #316. Although there's no clear winner, there is definitely interest in adopting something which is easier to use, if only to include the entire committee: Many TC39 delegates have trouble getting on IRC, and as a result, are not able to participate.

We in the ad-hoc inclusion group consider this to be an inclusion issue: It's important to us that TC39 communication channels are accessible to all TC39 delegates, and the use of IRC is a significant barrier, especially for new members, both technically and financially.

No chat platform is perfect, but we see the following advantages to Matrix:
- It's easy to [create a Matrix account](https://app.element.io/#/register) for free.
- Matrix channels are all logged publicly at https://view.matrix.org/ (if they are on the Matrix homeserver and open to read).
- Matrix has high-quality Web and mobile clients and a high level of stability and interoperability.
- We are not aware of TC39 delegates living in jurisdictions where it is blocked.
- Matrix has very expressive moderation tools.
- Matrix can be bridged to IRC, so we avoid losing connection with folks who stay on IRC (though you'll get a better user experience on a Matrix client).
- Matrix supports DMs, E2E encryption, ad-hoc public or private small group chats, etc., so it's likely to be useful for communication of delegates beyond the main committee channels.
- As a bonus: Like IRC, Matrix is open source, open protocol and federated.

The ad-hoc inclusion group has been prototyping Matrix internally, and would like to propose that we prototype it more broadly among the committee. We created a few channels to get started:
- [#tc39-general:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org))-- the equivalent of #tc39
- [#tc39-delegates:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org/)) -- the equivalent of #tc39-delegates
- [#tc39-inclusion:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org/)) -- the place the ad-hoc inclusion group has been having discussions

We will present on this topic in the January 2021 TC39 meeting for some initial feedback, for potential later adoption by the committee.

[03:38:37.0239] <littledan>
 * OK, here's my draft message:

_Note: the following message was edited by other members of the ad-hoc inclusion group_

We've been discussing the pros and cons of different chat platforms in #316. Although there's no clear winner, there is definitely interest in adopting something which is easier to use, if only to include the entire committee: Many TC39 delegates have trouble getting on IRC, and as a result, are not able to participate.

The choice of chat platform is ultimately an inclusion issue: It's important that TC39 communication channels are accessible to all TC39 delegates, and the use of IRC is a significant barrier, especially for new members, both technically and financially.

No chat platform is perfect, but we see the following advantages to Matrix:
- It's easy to [create a Matrix account](https://app.element.io/#/register) for free.
- Matrix channels are all logged publicly at https://view.matrix.org/ (if they are on the Matrix homeserver and open to read).
- Matrix has high-quality Web and mobile clients and a high level of stability and interoperability.
- We are not aware of TC39 delegates living in jurisdictions where it is blocked.
- Matrix has very expressive moderation tools.
- Matrix can be bridged to IRC, so we avoid losing connection with folks who stay on IRC (though you'll get a better user experience on a Matrix client).
- Matrix supports DMs, E2E encryption, ad-hoc public or private small group chats, etc., so it's likely to be useful for communication of delegates beyond the main committee channels.
- As a bonus: Like IRC, Matrix is open source, open protocol and federated.

The ad-hoc inclusion group has been prototyping Matrix internally, and would like to propose that we prototype it more broadly among the committee. We created a few channels to get started:
- [#tc39-general:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!wbACpffbfxANskIFZq:matrix.org))-- the equivalent of #tc39
- [#tc39-delegates:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!WgJwmjBNZEXhJnXHXw:matrix.org/)) -- the equivalent of #tc39-delegates
- [#tc39-inclusion:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org) ([logs](https://view.matrix.org/room/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org/)) -- the place the ad-hoc inclusion group has been having discussions

We will present on this topic in the January 2021 TC39 meeting for some initial feedback, for potential later adoption by the committee.

[03:38:44.0182] <littledan>
wdyt, good to post?

[03:38:52.0144] <littledan>
or, any more edits to make?

[03:38:56.0074] <ryzokuken>
LGTM

[03:40:09.0125] <jasew>
üëÄ

[03:41:15.0480] <jasew>
yeah looks good to me

[03:41:21.0664] <jasew>
littledan: 

[03:42:15.0746] <littledan>
Thanks

[06:10:18.0942] <littledan>
We should include the purpose of each channel, not just the logs link, in the topic

[06:18:13.0832] <littledan>
‚ù§Ô∏è

[06:19:05.0836] <ryzokuken>
I suppose we cannot change the descriptions of the other rooms until Mark returns.

[09:07:23.0368] <davethegr8>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> ^ requested a timeslot for us. will anyone be available this weekend and early next week to help work on the presentation? and would anyone like to co-present?

Can't co-present, but I'm happy to help

[09:11:48.0314] <mpcsh>
littledan: thank you for editing my reflector post - I actually wasn't aware that WG was a formal status

[09:13:06.0632] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> We should include the purpose of each channel, not just the logs link, in the topic

went ahead and made you admin so you should be able to add whatever you'd like to the topics

[09:47:21.0108] <littledan>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> littledan: thank you for editing my reflector post - I actually wasn't aware that WG was a formal status

did you understand the motivation for the various other changes that I made?

[09:57:53.0824] <snek>
the links in the reflector issue aren't very useful unless you're already in the channels using app.element.io, can they be changed to matrix.to links or smth?

[09:59:09.0570] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> did you understand the motivation for the various other changes that I made?

yes, absolutely

[09:59:12.0911] <ryzokuken>
can't we just use room aliases?

[09:59:23.0833] <ryzokuken>
like `#tc39-inclusion:matrix.org`?

[09:59:48.0353] <ryzokuken>
those are expected to work on every client

[09:59:57.0053] <snek>
~~and it also doesn't help that the names in the issue aren't the actual channel names~~ 

[10:00:45.0024] <snek>
 * ~~and it also doesn't help that the names in the issue aren't the actual channel names~~ 

[10:01:25.0646] <littledan>
> <@snek:snek.dev> the links in the reflector issue aren't very useful unless you're already in the channels using app.element.io, can they be changed to matrix.to links or smth?

doesn't it go to a preview page for you?

[10:01:41.0742] <snek>
no it just dumped me in the last channel i was in

[10:01:52.0596] <littledan>
oh weird...

[10:01:54.0150] <littledan>
oops

[10:01:59.0953] <littledan>
sorry!

[10:02:04.0046] <snek>
np

[10:02:12.0048] <snek>
also surprising that element doesn't have markdown üëÄ

[10:02:19.0393] <snek>
 * also surprising that element doesn't have markdown üëÄ

[10:02:29.0506] <littledan>
it does have some of it, randomly

[10:02:33.0393] <snek>
lol

[10:06:30.0699] <littledan>
OK, switched to matrix.to links

[10:06:42.0397] <littledan>
the links I had before, I thought they went directly to the right place in the web client

[10:07:04.0518] <littledan>
did I get the channel names right?

[10:09:00.0153] <snek>
seems correct i think

[10:10:29.0230] <snek>
can matrix irc bridging combine the channels into existing rooms? would be cool to connect these up with the freenode stuff

[10:12:10.0691] <littledan>
yeah, if anyone wants to look into the IRC bridging and make that a good experience for everyone, that would be awesome

[10:12:24.0143] <littledan>
it would definitely be bad if we had fragmented chat worlds

[10:21:35.0773] <ryzokuken>
snek: strikeout works

[10:21:45.0104] <ryzokuken>
<del>it does, right?</del>

[10:21:58.0441] <ryzokuken>
but it uses `<del></del>` not md

[10:24:42.0867] <snek>
lmao


2021-01-22
[07:41:20.0654] <littledan>
why is the Matrix topic 60 minutes?

[07:41:23.0201] <littledan>
that seems excessive

[08:03:57.0247] <littledan>
mpcsh: ^

[08:28:34.0233] <littledan>
how about we cut the timebox down to 15 minutes?

[10:49:53.0840] <mpcsh>
there's also davethegr8's NVC updates to present - 60 minutes was an attempt to reserve the maximum amount of time we might need, anticipating discussion on both topics, but I agree it's excessive. I think 15 is probably too short but 30 or 45 should be enough

[13:52:00.0883] <devsnek>
+tc39-official:matrix.org

[14:43:16.0061] <littledan>
mpcsh: It's important to me that we're not asking for consensus on any migration. Instead, we're announcing that this is available for prototyping

[14:43:29.0493] <littledan>
overall, I think both the NVC update and the Matrix topic should be able to fit into 15 minutes

[14:44:10.0046] <littledan>
I think the chair group has been the decider on these things (both NVC and communication channels) in the past and it would be best to stick with that pattern here. People can give feedback in the Reflector as input to this decision.

[14:44:52.0082] <littledan>
(or some input in discussion, but a long discussion would be pretty unproductive, I think)


2021-01-24
[23:11:24.0694] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> I think the chair group has been the decider on these things (both NVC and communication channels) in the past and it would be best to stick with that pattern here. People can give feedback in the Reflector as input to this decision.

this makes a lot of sense, I'm cool with this plan then


2021-01-25
[10:22:46.0052] <jasew>
Community link (So you can see the other TC39 channels) - +tc39-official:matrix.org


2021-01-26
[05:47:32.0190] <littledan>
Does anyone have slides to review for the committee meeting?

[05:49:24.0160] <littledan>
we should probably write this and review it here before presenting to the committee, to avoid repeating the confusion in the Reflector issue

[05:49:27.0671] <littledan>
mpcsh: ^

[08:32:01.0701] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> we should probably write this and review it here before presenting to the committee, to avoid repeating the confusion in the Reflector issue

working on slides today. happy to hop on a call to create them together

[08:32:24.0669] <littledan>
eh, I'd prefer reviewing them async

[08:33:26.0063] <mpcsh>
I'll post here soon

[13:57:45.0101] <littledan>
mpcsh: How's it going?


2021-01-27
[13:14:25.0905] <davethegr8>
What would people like to see on NVC training slides? I'm thinking basic overview of what's been done, where we currently are, and what feedback we want

[13:36:30.0497] <littledan>
davethegr8: That sounds good

[13:36:50.0401] <littledan>
mpcsh: I'd also like to see the Matrix slides before you present them


2021-01-28
[18:38:08.0151] <mpcsh>
first draft of slides here: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kD33NRj7rc-ImoEZy2zeHpyXz0gEEEQuIlkH8LWYKsA/edit?usp=sharing

[18:38:12.0969] <mpcsh>
cc littledan 

[18:38:19.0218] <mpcsh>
 * cc littledan 

[00:09:01.0461] <littledan>
Can I have edit access?

[00:09:12.0743] <littledan>
(littledan@chromium.org)

[04:51:25.0342] <littledan>
I made some small edits, slides LGTM

[09:42:12.0356] <davethegr8>
littledan: did you remove the cost amounts from the inclusion slides? just curious why if so

[09:42:34.0450] <littledan>
davethegr8: Because I don't want people to focus on them

[09:42:48.0916] <littledan>
I mean, my impulse was, "let's go with the cheap one"; I imagine others may do so also

[09:43:02.0007] <littledan>
if people want to get involved in evaluating the details, then they should have more information than just the cost

[09:43:25.0018] <littledan>
so, IMO, we can give a more detailed treatment of each, with cost, or just speak more vaguely

[09:43:53.0710] <davethegr8>
gotcha, thanks for the context!

[09:45:15.0187] <ryzokuken>
IMHO, it's too easy to spend days debating about this in the plenary. We should keep people updated, but the actual discussions should probably happen in a smaller group, if possible over a dedicated session.

[09:47:37.0319] <littledan>
I think the two things that the presentation is on should be ultimately decided on by the chair group, not consensus. The slides are vague, which is probably the right call. But it could be good to talk this over with the chairs before the presentation, at least briefly

[09:48:03.0767] <littledan>
is anyone available to do that?

[09:48:41.0285] <ryzokuken>
before today? don't we have like... 10 minutes?

[09:53:06.0923] <littledan>
err... yeah, I guess this was put off for too long

[09:55:30.0341] <littledan>
I wrote Aki a quick message to ask

[09:55:46.0032] <littledan>
I think, for this presentation, we can just not mention any way to make a decision, and say we're not asking for a decision today

[09:56:25.0651] <ryzokuken>
sure

[09:56:53.0841] <ryzokuken>
but yeah, I'd be happy to volunteer to discuss this with the chair team, but we gotta find a suitable time slot.

[09:57:24.0023] <littledan>
yeah, right before when the meeting starts is a bad time

[10:01:03.0907] <mpcsh>
I'll make it very clear as we present that this is nothing more than a progress update

[10:05:02.0195] <littledan>
...that wording is a little funny, as it makes it sound like we're in charge of something, which we're not

[10:05:15.0545] <littledan>
I also removed the word "migration" since we have not decided to migrate

[10:11:15.0201] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> ...that wording is a little funny, as it makes it sound like we're in charge of something, which we're not

fair - how about rather than framing the whole presentation, frame each issue? we're comparing pricing on NVC trainers before bringing it to the chairs / ExeCom for final approval; we're prototyping Matrix to potentially propose a migration in the future

[10:18:19.0079] <littledan>
My suggestion is, to frame these as ideas for feedback, that we're not asking for a decision today

[10:18:43.0821] <littledan>
so, yes

[10:19:05.0584] <littledan>
I would not go into detail on the approval/funding process for NVC trainers

[10:19:11.0087] <littledan>
 * I would not go into detail on the approval/funding process for NVC trainers

[11:17:08.0736] <mpcsh>
üëçÔ∏è

[12:39:40.0850] <mpcsh>
littledan: the slides are polished and I'm ready to present. what kind of feedback should we be asking for here? I'm wary of opening it up too much for delegates to, e.g., shoot down NVC as a concept

[12:40:32.0138] <mpcsh>
 * littledan: the slides are polished and I'm ready to present. what kind of feedback should we be asking for here? I'm wary of opening it up too much for delegates to, e.g., shoot down NVC as a concept

[13:36:09.0783] <littledan>
no comments?

[13:36:18.0626] <littledan>
I thought we were going to get some feedback

[13:36:25.0630] <littledan>
I guess silence means, people are good with it?

[13:36:38.0029] <mpcsh>
guess so ü§∑‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

[13:36:53.0157] <mpcsh>
I ran right up to the timebox unfortunately, but the queue was empty the entire time

[14:19:34.0600] <jasew>
mpcsh thanks for presenting, great update

[14:19:40.0441] <jasew>
 * mpcsh: thanks for presenting, great update

[14:20:16.0605] <jasew>
 * mpcsh thanks for presenting, great update

