2021-05-05
[17:59:33.0869] <littledan>
Thanks for posting this!

[17:59:56.0447] <littledan>
A little nit: "We'd like to gain consensus for this migration from you, the chairs" -- this wording is a little funny. I think you're saying, "We'd like you, the chairs, to make the call and announce the decision about whether to migrate to Matrix to the committee". Anyway, it's fine

[18:03:12.0347] <littledan>
so, for me to write the letter to Ecma about NVC, I will need a concise explanation of why the cost is higher than 6000 CHF. Any story will do, but we need to be able to explain it.

[18:10:51.0192] <littledan>
the explanation can be, "Unlike the previous allocation, where a budget of 6000 CHF was pulled out of thin air, this request is based on months of work and interviews with different trainers who would meet TC39's organizational needs. We have selected the cheaper of the two final options, as documented in https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130"

[18:14:33.0511] <littledan>
"This proposal was discussed in committee, and the chair group concluded that they recommend that we request this service from Ecma."

[18:14:38.0261] <littledan>
how does this sort of text look to you?

[18:14:43.0471] <littledan>
 * the explanation can be, "Unlike the previous allocation, where a budget of 6000 CHF was pulled out of thin air, this request is based on months of work and interviews with different trainers who would meet TC39's organizational needs. We have selected the cheaper of the two final options, as documented in https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130"

[18:30:20.0892] <ryzokuken>
Sounds great to me

[18:54:06.0593] <littledan>
davethegr8: mpcsh Does this all sound accurate to you?

[09:18:29.0310] <davethegr8>
How can I help write a business case for the proposal amount? Do you want me to put something in the issue or I could just send it here?

[09:21:58.0073] <littledan>
Either way works; wherever you draft the text, I will copy it into the email.

[09:24:15.0404] <davethegr8>
Ok, noted. I'll try to get to that this week.

[14:14:47.0167] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> A little nit: "We'd like to gain consensus for this migration from you, the chairs" -- this wording is a little funny. I think you're saying, "We'd like you, the chairs, to make the call and announce the decision about whether to migrate to Matrix to the committee". Anyway, it's fine

Added a sentence onto the end to this effect üëçüèª

[14:15:20.0489] <mpcsh>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> davethegr8: mpcsh Does this all sound accurate to you?

Sounds great to me as well


2021-05-10
[13:16:59.0179] <davethegr8>
The fee of 9200 represents a comprehensive training program: multiple trainings delivered over a timeframe of months, which allows our delegates to fully process information, practice between sessions, and continue to develop positive communication techniques. This proposal offers an introduction to the global community of Nonviolent Communication, allowing delegates to continue to develop their skills regardless of where they are. In addition, the content contained in this proposal is double the amount that was previously discussed.

[13:17:03.0398] <davethegr8>
littledan: what do you think?

[13:17:14.0984] <davethegr8>
 * littledan: what do you think?

[13:17:27.0636] <littledan>
well, that doesn't explain why we need that, and why we can't fit it in a 6000 CHF budget

[13:17:47.0111] <littledan>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> the explanation can be, "Unlike the previous allocation, where a budget of 6000 CHF was pulled out of thin air, this request is based on months of work and interviews with different trainers who would meet TC39's organizational needs. We have selected the cheaper of the two final options, as documented in https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130"

What do you think of adding these sentences?

[13:17:54.0375] <littledan>
in addition to your paragraph

[13:19:13.0486] <davethegr8>
That works for me if you think it's necessary... I was trying to avoid a direct comparison and focus more on the specific merits of the NVC proposal.

[13:27:05.0963] <littledan>
I think Istvan was asking us to explain the delta

[13:27:50.0824] <davethegr8>
ok, including your explination as well sounds good to me


2021-05-11
[09:56:42.0605] <mpcsh>
I will unfortunately not be able to make our usual call on Friday, as I will (if all goes to plan) be standing on the summit of Mt Hood right about when we begin üòÅ


2021-05-14
[09:11:07.0306] <davethegr8>
Hey all, seems like everyone had other things going on today, so I dropped off the call. Talk to you next time!

[09:21:42.0491] <ptomato>
I'm so sorry - I'm attending an online conference today and forgot to send my regrets


2021-05-19
[04:46:45.0984] <ryzokuken>
I see that it's been a couple of days (atleast 19) since Mark filed the Admin and Business issue for moving to Matrix

[04:47:15.0341] <ryzokuken>
Is there any sort of timeline for these sort of things? There's no activity on that issue whatsoever... is it being discussed?

[04:47:45.0818] <ryzokuken>
I ask with such impatience because freenode might be, for the lack of a better word, imploding...

[04:47:58.0287] <ryzokuken>
 * I ask with such impatience because freenode might be, for the lack of a better word, imploding...

[04:48:07.0160] <ryzokuken>
https://fuchsnet.ch/freenode-resign-letter.txt

[05:02:57.0892] <ryzokuken>
> Realistically, the best approach for you as a community leader right now is to remain calm, and closely watch for updates from the staff. If action is required to eg. move your community, you will likely be made aware of this. It's probably a good idea to start thinking about contingency plans for the worst-case scenario, though.

[05:29:34.0225] <littledan>
Maybe email the chairs?

[05:29:48.0903] <littledan>
Or reference this in the issue?

[05:43:07.0474] <ryzokuken>
Didn't want to drag too many people into what seems to be network drama without confirming first but given how things are progressing, I'll do it later today.

[05:43:20.0987] <ryzokuken>
 * Didn't want to drag too many people into what seems to be network drama without confirming first but given how things are progressing, I'll do it later today.

[05:44:10.0311] <littledan>
Well, this seems pretty serious after taking a look. Thanks for confirming and being cautious

[05:44:37.0684] <ryzokuken>
üôá‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

[08:08:56.0063] <ptomato>
someone else already opened an issue: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/374

[08:15:52.0583] <ryzokuken>
ptomato: I discussed it with them on the channel, they also linked to the comment I made on Mark's issue

[08:59:26.0334] <jasew>
Missed this

[08:59:44.0635] <jasew>
So it sounds like ryzokuken is going to email the chairs about this from what I‚Äôve read up?

[09:59:53.0172] <ryzokuken>
I already made comments on both the issues, should I also write an email? I don't particularly mind, but I don't want to overburden the chairs...

[10:15:56.0068] <littledan>
The alternative would be to reach out to Rob privately

[10:16:05.0915] <littledan>
Since the other chairs might be busy

[10:16:09.0334] <ryzokuken>
Sure, I could do that too.

[10:16:17.0047] <ryzokuken>
Let me shoot him a twitter DM

[10:42:12.0996] <Rob Palmer>
hello there

[10:43:21.0478] <Rob Palmer>
Is there a list of any remaining tasks needed to make Matrix the default comms channel?

[10:43:49.0255] <Rob Palmer>
I am wondering how close we are to that.

[11:19:40.0939] <littledan>
I think the main thing was, we didn't get around to asking the chair group to make the call that everyone should transition

[11:20:05.0693] <littledan>
I would prefer that we switch directly to Matrix now rather than doing a hop through some other IRC server

[11:20:30.0518] <littledan>
We have given the committee ample time to prototype and no real issues came up AFAIK

[11:20:43.0890] <littledan>
All permissions and logging issues have been worked out

[11:24:20.0289] <ryzokuken>
we have also set up the appropriate workflows for things like voiced channels...

[11:45:12.0343] <jasew>
I agree, we should formally ask the chair for a decision, there was nothing left on our side to do. Yes we should switch directly, I don‚Äôt think anyone was for any sort of bridge at this point.

[11:45:46.0599] <littledan>
Yeah, I think we asked the chair group for this some time ago, in the Admin-and-Business repo, and were awaiting a response

[11:46:10.0687] <littledan>
This was after Aki had said that she would be happy to do the transition and was just waiting for the explicit proposal

[11:55:11.0366] <mpcsh>
Rob Palmer here's the link to said proposal for your convenience: https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/142

[11:55:50.0095] <mpcsh>
But yeah I don't think there's anything left to do infrastructure-wise; I think all that's left is for the chairs to make the decree

[12:48:05.0929] <Rob Palmer>
ok thank you - we are on it

[15:51:45.0755] <Aki>
i'm sorry! my boss quit in march and then i was doing his job and my job (poorly) and then i finally gave in and just took his job

[15:52:54.0908] <littledan>
congrats?

[15:53:18.0920] <Aki>
oh lol thanks (i guess, i had reservations about going back into management)

[15:53:24.0842] <littledan>
/me doesn't have a boss


2021-05-20
[15:07:00.0215] <Sora Morimoto>
Strangely, most of the members in this room have admin privilege, which is probably not an expected setup. Or is the current state right?


2021-05-21
[03:48:25.0387] <ryzokuken>
Sora Morimoto: this is the inclusion ad-hoc group's room.

[03:49:03.0562] <ryzokuken>
the rest of the committee's rooms would have the regular setup, this one is supposed to stay this way.


2021-05-24
[01:35:32.0069] <Rob Palmer>
hello all.  i'd like to link to a single guide to "getting started with matrix for tc39 folk", e.g. selecting a client, registering an account, joining the key rooms.  otherwise we'll end up copying and pasting the same set of links/steps in IRC and issues whenever someone asks.  does such a doc exist?

[01:36:02.0295] <ryzokuken>
I remember mpcsh wrote something?

[01:36:41.0537] <Rob Palmer>
ryzokuken: I found this doc, but it's for room setup, not user setup.  https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/blob/main/docs/matrix-setup.md

[01:37:31.0492] <ryzokuken>
ah, I see. I could kickstart one for users and folks could help me finish it quicker üòÄ 

[01:37:49.0666] <ryzokuken>
 * ah, I see. I could kickstart one for users and folks could help me finish it quicker üòÄ 

[01:39:29.0241] <Rob Palmer>
that would be greatly appreciated.

[11:11:07.0594] <mpcsh>
I will yet again be unable to attend our regular call this friday, unfortunately. will be on a plane to visit family for the first time since dec 2019 ü•≤


2021-05-25
[22:19:02.0834] <Aki>
if anyone is around, can y'all remind me if you had (pre freenode crash and burn) a presentation prepped that you were ready to give re: Matrix?

[22:48:18.0561] <ryzokuken>
https://pad.hacc.space/Pe6nrqC1RMWqdUXbCXwIrg#

[22:48:31.0732] <ryzokuken>
just started a fresh markdown doc for the new user guide

[22:48:52.0438] <ryzokuken>
feel free to jump in and make suggestions

[23:05:08.0687] <Aki>
i personally need to sleep between now and opening the meeting, and I still haven't figured out how i want to talk about irc/matrix in 10 hours but i'm thrilled you get started on it

[23:38:47.0248] <Aki>
did anyone make the TC39 "space" yet?

[23:39:18.0910] <ryzokuken>
I made a temporary private space for everything I'm in for organizational reasons.

[23:39:48.0241] <ryzokuken>
but I could set a proper space up if you'd like

[23:39:55.0933] <ryzokuken>
it's still a beta feature though

[23:41:19.0106] <Aki>
I don't have strong feelings one way or another yet

[23:41:31.0874] <Aki>
except that we will presumably need it at some point

[23:41:38.0023] <ryzokuken>
it's just a super cool feature, we should definitely... 

[23:41:39.0809] <ryzokuken>
yeah exactly

[23:41:44.0636] <ryzokuken>
at some point, for sure.

[23:42:15.0325] <ryzokuken>
are you around for a couple of minutes? I could test it out.

[23:42:56.0705] <Aki>
yeah i still haven't outlined my plan for tomorrow's real time chat conversation

[23:43:31.0026] <ryzokuken>
https://matrix.to/#/!WZhAthRzOsTKTNJcQw:igalia.com?via=igalia.com

[23:43:48.0712] <ryzokuken>
huh, it made the space in the igalia.com homeserver üòÖ

[23:43:54.0842] <ryzokuken>
 * huh, it made the space in the igalia.com homeserver üòÖ

[23:44:40.0312] <Aki>
should we be leaning more toward matrix or moz as the home server? (no offence intended, just unclear on load & optics)

[23:45:23.0088] <ryzokuken>
yeah, totally. Probably matrix.org would be best but I think I cannot do it without an account on either of those homeservers.

[23:48:29.0487] <ryzokuken>
either way, the test space looks fine, except for the fact that it's on the wrong server. If someone with a matrix.org account could make one and add/invite me, I could take care of the rest...

[09:52:26.0613] <ryzokuken>
https://pad.hacc.space/Pe6nrqC1RMWqdUXbCXwIrg?both

[09:52:37.0048] <ryzokuken>
looks like it's coming together, what do folks think?

[09:55:47.0247] <littledan>
ryzokuken: LGTM to PR to how-we work!

[09:56:00.0226] <littledan>
 * ryzokuken: LGTM to PR to how-we work!

[10:25:02.0099] <littledan>
Great job presenting jasew !

[10:25:22.0040] <jasew>
Thanks!

[11:01:01.0738] <ryzokuken>
check this out, folks: https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/pull/89

[11:08:41.0853] <Tierney Cyren>
???

[11:08:49.0711] <Tierney Cyren>
why did this become a MDM

[11:17:17.0284] <Sora Morimoto>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> the rest of the committee's rooms would have the regular setup, this one is supposed to stay this way.

Sorry for the late reply! To be clear, I was just a bit skeptical about the fact that non-TC39 members are set as room admin. If it is the intended setup, there is no problem.

[11:18:23.0060] <ryzokuken>
I think each of the admins is atleast an invited expert? Either way I'm not entirely sure about it either.

[11:18:53.0301] <ljharb>
is "admin" the only permission level? or can there be granular groups

[11:19:10.0256] <ryzokuken>
actually, it can be as granular as you want it to be

[11:19:12.0812] <Aki>
oh it can get super granular

[11:19:19.0946] <ryzokuken>
it allows you to set a custom level from 0 to 100

[11:19:49.0695] <ljharb>
are they only hierarchical?

[11:20:00.0129] <ljharb>
like can level 50 have a permission level 51 doesn't?

[11:21:15.0773] <Sora Morimoto>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> I think each of the admins is atleast an invited expert? Either way I'm not entirely sure about it either.

For example, s-urabe is my friend and a pretty cool researcher, but he is not either.

[11:21:28.0589] <ryzokuken>
ah, gotcha

[11:22:18.0534] <Sora Morimoto>
Overall, as far as I remember, setting up permissions in Matrix was pretty rough, and I feel it's a good time to review it.

[11:22:32.0605] <ryzokuken>
well, this room is one of the first matrix channels we created, so it predates some of the policies we later set up for the rest of the rooms.

[11:24:13.0529] <ryzokuken>
either way, it's a great idea to discuss the exact details. Maybe we should do this in the next meeting of the inclusion group?

[11:25:35.0840] <Sora Morimoto>
I guess

[11:28:11.0965] <littledan>
> <@smorimoto:matrix.org> For example, s-urabe is my friend and a pretty cool researcher, but he is not either.

Oops, I'd like to remove his voice in delegates, but I guess Matrix doesn't let me

[11:35:18.0323] <Sora Morimoto>
> <@dehrenberg:igalia.com> Oops, I'd like to remove his voice in delegates, but I guess Matrix doesn't let me

hrm, quite weird...

[11:36:09.0947] <littledan>
Aki fixed it, don't worry

[11:36:46.0904] <Sora Morimoto>
Great thanks aki

[11:37:24.0270] <Sora Morimoto>
But it seems to be quite annoying to do this every time a new user joins.

[11:37:35.0143] <Sora Morimoto>
It would be nice if we could set something like default permissions.

[11:37:48.0727] <ryzokuken>
IRC also mandated we do this manually

[11:37:58.0609] <ryzokuken>
it's annoying only because everyone joined at once...

[11:38:15.0418] <Sora Morimoto>
It's a real nightmare...

[11:40:04.0855] <Aki>
i actually had a script i ran to on- or off-board delegates/IEs

[11:40:18.0086] <ryzokuken>
we could make a matrix bot for it

[11:41:02.0078] <ryzokuken>
if anything, matrix is _more_ scriptable because the whole protocol is built on top of HTTP instead of TCP üò≥

[11:41:14.0650] <ryzokuken>
so everything is just an HTTP request

[11:41:19.0081] <ryzokuken>
 * so everything is just an HTTP request

[11:41:28.0502] <Aki>
can y'all give me admin on TDZ

[11:42:09.0188] <Sora Morimoto>
Okay, Matrix was much better

[11:42:19.0581] <ryzokuken>
Aki: done üòÄ 

[11:43:18.0028] <Sora Morimoto>
It seems that the default permission can be set under "Roles & Permissions" of room settings.

[11:44:01.0494] <ryzokuken>
Sora Morimoto: are you proposing that we set the default level to +10 until everyone joins? Because I think I love that idea üòÄ 

[11:47:52.0793] <Sora Morimoto>
That would be good as well üôÇ (I have no idea what the best way is.)

[11:48:31.0856] <ryzokuken>
Aki: I think you were suggesting something like that? What do you think?

[11:49:07.0027] <Aki>
yeah i think that's fine while we're in flux

[11:49:22.0616] <ryzokuken>
(to keep the default level to +10 for now until the dust settles)

[11:49:26.0792] <ryzokuken>
perfect

[11:52:50.0569] <Sora Morimoto>
Nice


2021-05-26
[10:12:36.0856] <littledan>
A lightweight open discussion topic could be explicit support for consensus: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/360 . What do people think of proposing this for the agenda gap that's coming up

[10:12:53.0725] <littledan>
or, are there any other inclusion topics to raise?

[10:57:32.0629] <littledan>
mpcsh: Excellent comment!

[14:04:26.0879] <ryzokuken>
Is it just me or does Matrix already have a comparable level of interaction?

[14:06:33.0128] <ryzokuken>
(exceeds my expectations, atleast)


2021-05-28
[06:45:55.0155] <davethegr8>
hey folks, I'm not feeling well today so won't be able to join our call

[06:49:19.0008] <ryzokuken>
davethegr8: no worries, hope you feel better soon!

[06:53:26.0917] <yulia>
Just a quick heads up: whatwg also moved after we moved, and they are very happy with the change to matrix üéâ

[06:54:01.0832] <ryzokuken>
yessss, that's so cool

[06:54:05.0823] <ryzokuken>
next goal: IETF

[06:54:31.0326] <ryzokuken>
they did a pilot with zulip and matrix last meeting, quite like ours.

[06:54:52.0577] <yulia>
one other thing, I am planning on announcing the localization of the website

[06:55:14.0551] <yulia>
translations now have documentation and are easier to do: https://github.com/tc39/tc39.github.io/pull/256

[06:55:19.0777] <yulia>
and we have a button: tc39.es

[06:55:26.0659] <yulia>
in the corner, much like MDN's

[06:56:23.0728] <ryzokuken>
yulia: that's awesome

[06:57:05.0952] <ryzokuken>
I somewhat mentioned that already in a talk at Alibaba's D2 since it was relevant, but an announcement sounds awesome.

[06:57:28.0490] <yulia>
yes, that is perfectly fine -- we haven't done a _thing_ where we invite new translations

[06:57:40.0575] <yulia>
so, this is opening the flood gates a bit, but should be managable

[06:58:19.0315] <ryzokuken>
sounds cool, thanks for pushing this one through üòÄ 

[06:58:30.0881] <ryzokuken>
 * sounds cool, thanks for pushing this one through üòÄ 

[06:59:07.0806] <yulia>
no problem, anyone want to take over üò¨

[06:59:13.0386] <yulia>
jk jk

[06:59:14.0874] <yulia>
ill deal

[09:01:42.0393] <jasew>
Is there a meeting on today?

[09:01:46.0984] <ryzokuken>
yeah

[09:01:55.0473] <ryzokuken>
anyone in there? I'm in the queue

[09:02:01.0032] <ryzokuken>
but someone has to let me in

[09:02:12.0385] <jasew>
im in, just me

[09:02:25.0757] <jasew>
It doesn't say you're trying to come in

[09:02:30.0606] <ptomato>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> but someone has to let me in

same

[09:02:54.0276] <jasew>
Maybe i don't have permission to see the queue, i just went straight in though

[09:03:00.0861] <ryzokuken>
yeah

[09:03:10.0511] <ryzokuken>
because you must be on the guest list but not the organizer

[09:03:16.0677] <jasew>
right IC

[09:03:53.0636] <jasew>
So can only mpcsh to let people in?

[09:04:05.0816] <ryzokuken>
maybe littledan?

[09:05:34.0579] <ryzokuken>
now that we're waiting, I have another question: why are we using Google Meet? üòÖ

[09:06:31.0972] <littledan>
Wanna use an Igalia jitsi room?

[09:06:38.0156] <jasew>
Sure

[09:06:41.0086] <ryzokuken>
or 8x8

[09:06:45.0239] <ryzokuken>
either could work fine

[09:07:00.0232] <ryzokuken>
https://8x8.vc/tc39/inclusion

[09:07:02.0804] <ryzokuken>
what about this

[09:07:29.0458] <ryzokuken>
do they charge us by the hour? I think not...

[09:08:13.0499] <littledan>
No, it's $99/month (edit: this is an error, see below)


2021-05-29
[10:47:42.0586] <Rob Palmer>
I'm paying $9.99/month for the TC39 Jitsi account. 

[10:51:44.0414] <ryzokuken>
Rob Palmer in that case, we decided to make the best of it by using it more often üòá

[10:52:27.0765] <Rob Palmer>
Yes, please do.


2021-05-31
[12:17:09.0572] <littledan>
* No, it's $99/month (edit: this is an error, see below)

