2021-03-05
[08:00:42.0150] <littledan>
Are we meeting today?

[08:00:59.0419] <davethegr8>
yep, was just about to hop on

[08:03:26.0414] <ryzokuken>
waiting for someone to let me in

[08:04:05.0768] <davethegr8>
I don't think we have any sort of gatekeeper, you're going to the google meet right?

[08:04:22.0164] <littledan>
are you still having trouble?

[08:04:31.0458] <ryzokuken>
yeah, but my invited email is not my google email

[08:14:34.0054] <ryzokuken>
blog post titled "how to contribute to TC39 as a non-delegate"? 

[08:14:41.0000] <ryzokuken>
would something like that work?

[08:15:16.0024] <ryzokuken>
or maybe a .md page in `how-we-work` sth, dunno, just something we can update and refer to.

[08:35:25.0754] <ptomato>
oh, shoot, I missed the start of the meeting. is it still going on?

[08:35:35.0118] <davethegr8>
yes

[08:48:42.0482] <ryzokuken>
https://fluffychat.im/en/

[09:01:40.0122] <littledan>
that was a great meeting!

[09:01:42.0811] <littledan>
we covered so much

[09:02:06.0125] <littledan>
I feel like we're really making progress at getting to the core of various different issues

[09:02:22.0707] <littledan>
(still a lot ahead of us)

[09:27:44.0062] <mpcsh>
agreed, that was a very productive meeting

[09:56:30.0626] <mpcsh>
the next scheduled meeting is after the Daylight Silly Time changeover here in the US. the CET to CEST changeover happens on 3/28, which is after this upcoming meeting and before the one after. the meeting is currently scheduled on UTC, so should we change its time to account for DST? if so, when should we change it?

[10:03:31.0177] <mpcsh>
 * the next scheduled meeting is after the Daylight Silly Time changeover here in the US. the CET to CEST changeover happens on 3/28, which is after this upcoming meeting and before the one after. the meeting is currently scheduled on UTC, so should we change its time to account for DST? if so, when should we change it?

[10:31:31.0919] <littledan>
apparently a common issue with Matrix is losing messages due to misconfigured encryption. We should probably include, in our "opinionated Matrix guide", that people should turn off encryption (in addition to advising against the Electron client and Mozilla homeserver)

[12:34:55.0266] <davethegr8>
the Element app (I'm assuming that's the electron client) seems to work fine for me, I just did all the sign up on the web

[12:35:38.0239] <ryzokuken>
I use the nightly electron app and it works pretty smoothly for me as well!

[12:36:33.0354] <ryzokuken>
but since matrix/element is a (mostly) volunteer-driven OSS suite, Linux support is better than MacOS, so maybe that's what's causing issues.

[12:39:22.0970] <ryzokuken>
 * but since matrix/element is a (mostly) volunteer-driven OSS suite, Linux support is better than MacOS, so maybe that's what's causing issues.

[14:22:04.0165] <davethegr8>
Got a reply from one nvc trainer asking for clarifications on their proposal, can y'all please take a look at https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/issues/2 and let me know what feedback you have?


2021-03-09
[20:01:05.0499] <mpcsh>
> <@davethegr8:matrix.org> Got a reply from one nvc trainer asking for clarifications on their proposal, can y'all please take a look at https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/issues/2 and let me know what feedback you have?

those changes look solid!

[20:02:15.0200] <mpcsh>
littledan ryzokuken davethegr8 jasew can I get you all to review your pieces of the notes from the last meeting? https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/pull/19

[20:02:31.0191] <mpcsh>
 * littledan ryzokuken davethegr8 jasew can I get you all to review your pieces of the notes from the last meeting? https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/pull/19


2021-03-19
[03:26:28.0616] <mpcsh>
hey folks, a rough bout of allergies is keeping me awake, and I think it's going to be unhealthy for me to wake up in time for our call. links for the call and the notes are [on github](https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/issues/20) as usual. see you all at the next one ðŸ’¤

[03:27:06.0876] <Jack Works>
ðŸ‘€

[03:27:17.0520] <Jack Works>
What's going on? 

[09:02:20.0792] <ryzokuken>
are we meeting then?

[09:02:25.0761] <ryzokuken>
I'm waiting to be ushered in

[09:03:25.0284] <davethegr8>
still meeting as far as I know. no updates from me however

[09:04:42.0465] <ryzokuken>
anyone already in the meeting?

[09:04:45.0551] <ryzokuken>
 * anyone already in the meeting?

[09:04:57.0089] <davethegr8>
I am

[09:05:21.0948] <ryzokuken>
hm, and do you not see the option of letting me in? That's unfortunate.

[09:05:34.0402] <ryzokuken>
I guess we need an "organizer" to do that?

[09:05:49.0360] <ryzokuken>
tried with a diff account

[09:06:13.0323] <littledan>
meeting now

[09:07:44.0674] <ptomato>
I also can't get in

[09:10:27.0831] <littledan>
let's meet in https://meetings.igalia.com/tc39inclusion instead

[09:10:35.0992] <littledan>
sorry about that

[09:12:49.0041] <Jack Works>
What's the current meeting talking about

[09:13:08.0306] <ryzokuken>
Jack Works: inclusion!

[09:13:20.0399] <ryzokuken>
please feel free to join if you are interested ðŸ˜€ 

[09:15:57.0717] <Jack Works>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> Jack Works: inclusion!

That explains nothing ðŸ˜‚ and I'm afraid I cannot come cause I'm going to sleep

[09:16:13.0570] <ryzokuken>
ah, no worries

[09:16:29.0221] <ryzokuken>
more specifically, we are talking about updating the documentation

[09:17:39.0392] <Jack Works>
Documentation of what ðŸ‘€

[09:18:16.0309] <ryzokuken>
well, general committee documentation, for example the `how-we-work` repo.

[09:18:38.0418] <Jack Works>
Oh Cool


2021-03-30
[10:17:16.0470] <davethegr8>
Both "final" proposals are up in the GH issue, please take a look. My goal for this upcoming meeting is to review them so that we can make a recommendation to the Chair group

[10:18:32.0481] <davethegr8>
Then if the chairs agree with our recommendation, we'll hand off the contacts to them for scheduling and logistics, and I'll let the other one know we are declining to proceed. But if anyone has other ideas on process, I'd be happy to discuss.

