2021-06-01
[09:55:54.0545] <mpcsh>
hey, sorry for the confusion about the video conferencing room, though I'm happy to see we've moved off google meet. I've updated the link on the TC39 events calendar and in the repo meeting template. were there any notes from last week ryzokuken jasew littledan?

[09:55:55.0893] <mpcsh>
 * hey, sorry for the confusion about the video conferencing room, though I'm happy to see we've moved off google meet. I've updated the link on the TC39 events calendar and in the repo meeting template. were there any notes from last week ryzokuken jasew littledan?

[11:18:53.0975] <jasew>
Only this @mpcsh https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/issues/16#issuecomment-850537189 

[12:08:55.0519] <davethegr8>
So, what's next for us? NVC Training is done pending confirmation from Ecma and Matrix is adopted right? We have an issue for onboarding process, and anti-racism training is holding until NVC is farther along.

[13:07:55.0429] <ptomato>
one idea we were brainstorming last Friday was non-English-language channels for TC39 discussion

[13:09:43.0596] <davethegr8>
Ooh, that's interesting. I wasn't able to make friday -- where did the notes get posted?

[13:11:22.0908] <ptomato>
AFAIR we neglected to take detailed notes, the conversation was quite informal about "what should we do next"

[13:11:52.0050] <davethegr8>
ah gotcha

[13:12:28.0414] <davethegr8>
I do like the idea of non-english channels, would be a good thing to do

[13:31:21.0109] <littledan>
one of the major action items was to improve documentation and processes (e.g., onboarding, management) for Matrix


2021-06-03
[19:35:53.0488] <mpcsh>
fyi: my colleague Alissa Renz (new delegate, not yet on matrix) will be attending the next inclusion group meeting. she's a colleague of mine at Slack, and she's interested in the inclusion group's work as she gets up to speed with the committee's activities. I'll introduce her at the start of the call - see you all on the 11th!


2021-06-11
[09:00:31.0283] <jasew>
anyone have the jitsi link?

[09:01:34.0605] <ryzokuken>
jasew: check topic

[09:01:51.0657] <ryzokuken>
sorry for late notice but I have a conference talk right now, I will try to join in a bit

[09:01:58.0090] <ryzokuken>
 * sorry for late notice but I have a conference talk right now, I will try to join in a bit

[09:02:22.0874] <jasew>
weirdly my topic hasn't updated but i checked the chat history above and saw it

[09:22:12.0320] <ptomato>
oops, missed the start again! joining now. hope i haven't missed too much

[10:15:18.0043] <hober>
Hi all, I'm Tess, the WebKit Standards Lead at Apple. (And while I'm technically a TC39 delegate, I don't participate much & leave TC39 matters to colleagues on the JSC team.) I'm in the Positive Work Environment CG at W3C which, among other things, maintains W3C's Code of Conduct & leads DEI efforts there. I think it might be useful for me to attend TC39 Inclusion Group meetings & bridge between the two groups, if you'd like.

[10:17:20.0797] <ryzokuken>
> <@hober:mozilla.org> Hi all, I'm Tess, the WebKit Standards Lead at Apple. (And while I'm technically a TC39 delegate, I don't participate much & leave TC39 matters to colleagues on the JSC team.) I'm in the Positive Work Environment CG at W3C which, among other things, maintains W3C's Code of Conduct & leads DEI efforts there. I think it might be useful for me to attend TC39 Inclusion Group meetings & bridge between the two groups, if you'd like.

That's sounds awesome! Thanks! 

[10:21:01.0787] <ptomato>
I was just looking at the PWECG's documents the other day for inspiration :-)

[11:36:25.0901] <davethegr8>
hober: we'd love to have you join, I'll reach out on slack!


2021-06-15
[06:35:01.0450] <ryzokuken>
I was checking out GNOME's matrix guide at https://wiki.gnome.org/ThibaultMartin/WeechatMatrixTutorial

[06:35:11.0710] <ryzokuken>
I wonder if we can incorporate elements from this page to our guide


2021-06-18
[10:37:40.0346] <ptomato>
I will be on vacation next Friday and won't be able to make the inclusion group meeting


2021-06-25
[08:40:33.0241] <littledan>
Hi, are we having a meeting today?

[08:42:11.0085] <Jack Works>
Didn't see any event in the tc39 calendar

[08:43:07.0118] <littledan>
I do see it in the event calendar..  in 15 minutes

[09:04:19.0042] <ryzokuken>
Sorry won't be able to attend today, see you all next time. 


2021-06-28
[09:53:13.0751] <ptomato>
is this something we should consider adding to our agenda next time? https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/pull/381#discussion_r659920511

[11:35:43.0680] <davethegr8>
Not sure what you mean, what would we talk about?

[12:01:53.0825] <ljharb>
is there something controversial about it?

[12:28:35.0999] <ptomato>
not at all controversial, just whether this is something we have the ability to pick up

[16:50:30.0906] <ljharb>
sure, we can throw anything on the agenda we like :-)

[16:51:01.0064] <ljharb>
typically repo management is left up to the repo owners, unless it's going to affect the wider group - the chairs, in this case


2021-06-29
[17:05:47.0038] <ptomato>
I mean the comment about whether the inclusion group can facilitate a newcomers event at remote meetings

[19:23:01.0961] <ljharb>
ohhhhh sorry, the deep link didn't clue me in

[19:23:15.0813] <ljharb>
it seems like a great idea, but i'm not sure how helpful it'll be to newcomers without the in-person aspect

[19:23:23.0538] <ljharb>
 * it seems like a great idea, but i'm not sure how helpful it'll be to newcomers without the in-person aspect

[19:23:29.0020] <ljharb>
probably worth a shot?

[19:58:30.0107] <ptomato>
yeah, it struck me that nobody in this channel must have known what I was talking about ðŸ˜‚

[19:58:41.0071] <ptomato>
I guess we can see if we have any ideas

[09:07:48.0242] <davethegr8>
I think that's a wonderful idea :)

[11:32:49.0968] <mpcsh>
I think it's a great idea and would be happy to facilitate

[11:33:00.0321] <mpcsh>
though I think we'd need to recruit some veterans


2021-06-30
[18:05:43.0516] <Aki>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> though I think we'd need to recruit some veterans

at in-person meetings, it's _never_ been hard to recruit veterans. hopefully some percentage of those folks are still interested in showing up remotely

