2022-09-02
[02:42:16.0093] <mpcsh>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> reminder: NVC will not proceed without a presentation to plenary to meet the requirements noted last meeting. Is anyone going to take this on?

hi, yes. everything TC39 has taken a back seat to life this summer, but I would like to finally make this presentation.

[02:42:48.0096] <mpcsh>
I will not be available at our usual time tomorrow morning, unfortunately

[02:43:33.0166] <littledan>
The request, which I think is reasonable, is to:
- Present the syllabus in a bit more detail
- Explain why we need this (in particular, we should correct the misunderstanding that this is *only* to protect new people from long-time people, when it's really to help everybody)
- Do a temperature check and get at least 2/3 support from the committee

[02:44:10.0972] <littledan>
mpcsh: If you're too busy, can you share the contact information with the selected trainers so that someone else can get in touch with them to request this more detailed curriculum?

[06:16:15.0104] <davethegr8>
littledan: contact info is alongside the proposal docs in GitHub- I think the admin and business issue

[06:16:27.0139] <littledan>
ah oops

[06:16:43.0656] <littledan>
OK, well, should I contact them, or will someone else take this item of getting their syllabus

[08:39:09.0392] <Richard Gibson>
I am on vacation this week and will miss today's meeting 

