2022-05-02
[10:22:02.0290] <ptomato>
mpcsh: we didn't really get an answer to your question about what questions the execom has...


2022-05-03
[08:39:56.0652] <ptomato>
seems like they're going to have the meeting regardless of whether we attend or not ü§∑

[08:50:43.0772] <davethegr8>
honestly it feels like they are trying to get us to jump through hoops in a way of self-validating the need for process.

[08:51:38.0533] <davethegr8>
I'm recalling earlier discussions about funding requests... it really does not seem like this is a good or effective process.

[11:19:36.0885] <ljharb>
most ecma processes fall into that bucket ime

[15:40:49.0774] <davethegr8>
ptomato mpcsh I think I have a bit more info for us, any chance we could sync up this week?

[15:42:40.0864] <ptomato>
sure, Pacific time mornings are pretty full for me for the rest of the week but afternoons should be OK

[16:02:43.0446] <davethegr8>
Tomorrow afternoon is ok for me

[16:08:14.0595] <ptomato>
I might have to duck out and let someone in the door on short notice tomorrow afternoon, but if we could schedule something soon after lunchtime?


2022-05-04
[17:51:02.0539] <davethegr8>
Can we meet at 1:30pm Pacific time via https://8x8.vc/tc39/inclusion?

[19:00:19.0867] <ptomato>
works for me!


2022-05-09
[07:07:10.0754] <mpcsh>
hey all, sorry, I was OOO last week skiing volcanoes

[10:42:08.0509] <davethegr8>
Sorry I wasn't able to attend this morning. How did it go?

[12:46:14.0251] <ptomato>
I think we made some progress

[12:46:59.0765] <ptomato>
we did agree to ask the trainers for a short summary of what they thought they might cover in the training, and pass that back to the execom

[13:43:58.0633] <mpcsh>
I'm also working on a short memo with background context

[14:05:18.0720] <ljharb>
sorry i couldn't make it this morning

[14:05:26.0002] <ljharb>
what did execom need to know exactly?

[14:05:37.0733] <ljharb>
we're tc39, we provide them all their money, we want a little of it back for this, why is this hard

[15:23:57.0661] <mpcsh>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> we're tc39, we provide them all their money, we want a little of it back for this, why is this hard

they have a 40K CHF budget deficit, according to Patrick

[15:24:14.0701] <mpcsh>
I just finished drafting a short memo providing some of the missing context from the meeting https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ck_8fZWnd6uxTksQFMhsvHF-GfaQpVXx67U9QNKd4h0

[15:50:54.0668] <ljharb>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> they have a 40K CHF budget deficit, according to Patrick

oh ok, so are the financials being provided to all the members so we can figure out what needs to be cut?

[15:51:27.0183] <mpcsh>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> oh ok, so are the financials being provided to all the members so we can figure out what needs to be cut?

ha. haha. you're funny

[15:51:59.0208] <mpcsh>
(maybe that information is available somewhere, I don't know, but it's certainly not clear to me how a member company would influence that process in any way)

[15:52:09.0460] <davethegr8>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> oh ok, so are the financials being provided to all the members so we can figure out what needs to be cut?

ngl, I had the same thought

[15:52:38.0736] <ljharb>
i've heard some side conversations over the years about fancy dinners and parties and whatnot that are arguably unnecessary ¬Ø\\\_(„ÉÑ)_/¬Ø 

[15:53:23.0784] <ljharb>
 * i've heard some side conversations over the years about fancy dinners and parties and whatnot that are arguably unnecessary ¬Ø\\\_(„ÉÑ)_/¬Ø 


2022-05-10
[21:59:01.0037] <mpcsh>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> I just finished drafting a short memo providing some of the missing context from the meeting https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ck_8fZWnd6uxTksQFMhsvHF-GfaQpVXx67U9QNKd4h0

bumping this for tomorrow - would love some feedback from you all üíú

[11:48:34.0380] <ptomato>
mpcsh: thanks for putting it together!

[11:48:43.0379] <ptomato>
I have a couple of minor suggestions for phrasing

[11:50:07.0867] <ptomato>
"we determined that Nonviolent Communication Training (NVC) is the best way to directly solve this problem." -> maybe "We believe that..."? I'm a bit paranoid about leaving the impression that we think the training is a one-stop solution that never has to be considered in the future

[11:52:28.0670] <ptomato>
re. the last paragraph - I do think we should include something like this, making sure it's clear that we are not just talking about a few people who "couldn't handle pressure" or something like that, but it currently reads a bit on the defensive side. I'm not sure what the best way to rephrase it is

[11:54:28.0308] <mpcsh>
> <@pchimento:igalia.com> "we determined that Nonviolent Communication Training (NVC) is the best way to directly solve this problem." -> maybe "We believe that..."? I'm a bit paranoid about leaving the impression that we think the training is a one-stop solution that never has to be considered in the future

I like this, thank you

[11:54:53.0994] <mpcsh>
> <@pchimento:igalia.com> re. the last paragraph - I do think we should include something like this, making sure it's clear that we are not just talking about a few people who "couldn't handle pressure" or something like that, but it currently reads a bit on the defensive side. I'm not sure what the best way to rephrase it is

this was intentional because we got some of that pushback at the end of the meeting, as you might recall

[11:55:07.0792] <mpcsh>
trying to pre-emptively shape the discourse for when we're not in the room

[11:56:06.0779] <ptomato>
I agree, but I think if skeptics pick up a defensive tone out if it, it'll be easier to dismiss

[11:56:27.0651] <mpcsh>
yeah agreed

[12:00:54.0983] <davethegr8>
"We consulted five certified NVC trainers and received tailored proposals" -> mention that we asked them to make a proposal for a customized intro to NVC style course?

[12:01:56.0608] <davethegr8>
I Think that's the only feedback I have, but I've been super busy writing emails to Directors/VPs this morning


2022-05-11
[17:13:54.0061] <mpcsh>
üëçÔ∏è thanks Dave!

[17:30:10.0597] <mpcsh>
alright, so I refactored that to "We consulted five certified trainers and solicited bespoke proposals from each of them to introduce TC39 to the methods of NVC"

[17:30:51.0501] <mpcsh>
and I moved that last paragraph up to a "common misconceptions" section, expanded it a little bit, and tried to make it less defensive / combative


2022-05-12
[02:16:02.0299] <yulia>
Is the primary concern coming from Waldemar? (and by proxy, this is being restated by other members of the execom) have we considered other training? NVC is not the only one. Likely people who are versed in NVC might have other trainings they can offer.

[02:16:37.0010] <yulia>
The concern around NVC was raised a year ago, just wondering if we broadened our horizons in terms of what trainings we considered

[02:17:57.0720] <yulia>
 * Is the primary concern coming from Waldemar? have we considered other training? NVC is not the only one. Likely people who are versed in NVC might have other trainings they can offer.

[02:18:14.0030] <yulia>
 * Is the primary concern coming from Waldemar? (and by proxy, this is being restated by other members of the execom) have we considered other training? NVC is not the only one. Likely people who are versed in NVC might have other trainings they can offer.

[02:35:45.0349] <yulia>
 * The concern around NVC was raised a year ago, I am wondering if we broadened our horizons in terms of what trainings we considered, and if this might be overall more successful in the ultimate goal of improving communication within tc39

[08:07:00.0603] <ptomato>
in the meeting we had, the concerns seemed to be more about communication training not being within the remit of ECMA, rather than about NVC specifically

[10:09:02.0479] <ljharb>
"eating snacks at meetings" isn't within the remit of ecma either, but it facilitates the purpose of ecma, as does this.

[10:15:54.0342] <ptomato>
does ECMA pay for the snacks?! clearly I have been missing out on the in-person meetings

[10:54:06.0518] <ljharb>
lol the host does, i guess

[10:54:20.0958] <ljharb>
ECMA does historically pay for all - and in recent years, half - of one of the dinners

[10:54:38.0738] <ljharb>
but the concept's the same; the remit of ecma imo includes "anything that helps us do the work"


2022-05-13
[01:46:21.0688] <mpcsh>
reminder: meeting at 9am PDT / 6pm CEST!

[09:18:43.0114] <ptomato>
about that doodle for finding a new time ... https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/dyPmnrPb - pinging people who I remember have attended recently: Alissa Renz davethegr8 jasew Richard Gibson ryzokuken 


2022-05-17
[16:46:10.0131] <mpcsh>
anyone know when Dan's sabbatical is over? saw an email today that he's been nominated to be VP of Ecma! hoping that'll help our position in pushing for NVC training üëÄ

[16:52:06.0514] <ptomato>
within the next few weeks, I think


2022-05-23
[15:19:52.0786] <mpcsh>
did everyone see the email from Michael Saboff?

[15:20:35.0181] <mpcsh>
copying the contents below if not:
> TC39 Leadership,

> The Ecma ExeCom has discussed the Non-Violent Communications training request from TC39 at three separate meeting, the second of which was open to TC39 leadership, other TC chairs and GA members.

> The ExeCom supports the requested training provided the TC39 leadership takes on two tasks.

> 1. Although this training was discussed at the April 2021 plenary meeting, that presentation talked about the benefits not issues, and did not seek consensus.  We‚Äôd like to see a discussion among all TC39 members to surface the type of instances and issues that cause newcomers to stop attending as well as other communication issues that led to the request for training.  This discussion should seek consensus of the committee that it would benefit from the training and supports the request.
> 2. The TC39 leadership should evaluate the current Code of Conduct to see why it doesn‚Äôt sufficiently cover the types of incidents that might be dissuade newcomers from continued TC39 involvement.

> The ExeCom plans to ask the June 2022 GA to approve the requested training provided these two tasks are completed.

> Please contact me if you want more clarification.

[15:34:50.0831] <mpcsh>
my sense is that (1) is invalid ‚Äî¬†it's fully within the chairs' rights to decide to offer this training without seeking consensus, and it's not within Ecma's rights to mandate that we seek consensus for it.

[15:35:01.0423] <mpcsh>
I'm not sure how to address (2) ‚Äî I thought we _did_ address it during the call...

[15:38:20.0745] <davethegr8>
I have ... many thoughts. Some of them are (gestures at everything) chaos. Perhaps we sync up as an inclusion team on direction, and then loop in Chairs to develop responses?

[15:43:54.0811] <mpcsh>
should we just invite (a) chair(s) to our regular meeting this friday?

[16:25:12.0058] <davethegr8>
That would make it more of a "how do we implement this" kind of situation, would it not?

[16:54:28.0762] <mpcsh>
fair, perhaps we invite some CoC folks?

[16:54:36.0314] <mpcsh>
(which, I guess is me now, but I don't have much experience yet)


2022-05-24
[17:56:53.0598] <ljharb>
the CoC is not a silver bullet; it‚Äôs like the laws. Just because cops don‚Äôt catch everyone doesn‚Äôt mean we don‚Äôt teach people to behave well.

[18:39:39.0245] <ptomato>
I'll be on vacation Friday, so I'll have to miss it, sorry!

[20:54:21.0519] <davethegr8>
(I have lots of experience in CoC design, not a ton in enforcement)

