2022-07-08
[06:15:42.0813] <littledan>
Excellent news: Bloomberg is happy to sponsor a couple hours of stenography at the upcoming TC39 meeting, if we can find a vendor in time, as a trial

[06:15:50.0509] <littledan>
mpcsh: Do you have any leads there?

[09:03:27.0464] <Chris de Almeida>
meeting?

[09:10:25.0101] <Richard Gibson>
belated regrets for missing again today

[09:31:34.0033] <davethegr8>
had to drop, great to meet you Chris de Almeida 

[09:50:35.0746] <mpcsh>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> mpcsh: Do you have any leads there?

woohoo! not yet, but I can furnish some for you.

sorry all for missing the meeting — I've had a medical not-quite-crisis over the last few days and have been dealing with that. I'm getting our presentations on the agenda now (10min to the deadline! woof!) and I'll be on the ball next week.

[10:16:05.0289] <davethegr8>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> woohoo! not yet, but I can furnish some for you.
> 
> sorry all for missing the meeting — I've had a medical not-quite-crisis over the last few days and have been dealing with that. I'm getting our presentations on the agenda now (10min to the deadline! woof!) and I'll be on the ball next week.

hope you're doing better and/or getting better


2022-07-09
[19:20:49.0862] <littledan>
NVC and stenography should be discussion items, not breakout sessions, don’t you think?


2022-07-11
[06:48:16.0646] <jschoi>
When an employee of a TC39 member (who has never acted as a delegate before) says that TC39 doesn’t do a good job of inclusivity (e.g., for women, for differing perspectives), then is there a person or place to whom I can point them to discuss their concerns? There’s no webpage for the Inclusion Group or whatever—the closest thing I can find is the CoC page.

[06:48:45.0899] <littledan>
jschoi: You can join the inclusion group matrix chat, #tc39-inclusion:matrix.org 

[06:49:11.0762] <littledan>
or they can file a CoC report if there's something concrete, too

[06:49:17.0480] <jschoi>
Apologies and thanks!

[06:49:37.0325] <jschoi>
Wait, I got confused.

[06:49:58.0689] <jschoi>
This *is* the inclusion group Matrix chat, haha. So you’re saying “join the chat” is what I tell them.

[06:54:36.0134] <littledan>
oh wow I got confused!!!

[06:54:42.0137] <littledan>
yes... join this chat

[06:54:43.0668] <littledan>
sorry

[06:55:04.0770] <littledan>
yeah I think this is a good way to get in touch, don't you think?

[07:27:40.0325] <jschoi>
Yeah. I think eventually there should be a webpage devoted to the Inclusion Group that we could simply point to when someone airs concerns like this.

[07:27:50.0257] <jschoi>
 * Yeah. I think eventually there should be a webpage devoted to the Inclusion Group that we could simply point to when someone airs concerns like this.

[07:28:01.0070] <jschoi>
(Is it okay to publicly point to this room’s Matrix address?)

[07:28:02.0419] <littledan>
well, this group wasn't chartered by the committee; it's just something that I said we should do, and people went with it

[07:28:06.0079] <jschoi>
 * (Is it okay to publicly point to this room’s Matrix address?)

[07:28:23.0026] <littledan>
I'm not sure what the website should say

[07:29:30.0461] <jschoi>
We probably should have it formally chartered too. It’s an important issue.
(The webpage would probably say, “Join us at [link to Matrix room]. [Learn how to use Matrix here].”)

[07:30:14.0639] <littledan>
yeah, seems reasonable. It would be nice to have a publicly accessible way to learn about lots of TC39 subgroups

[07:31:07.0789] <jschoi>
In any case, it’s okay to publicly point to the #tc39-inclusion:matrix.org address, right?

[07:31:13.0905] <littledan>
yes


2022-07-12
[07:58:11.0144] <littledan>
Do we have any progress on the NVC or stenography topics?

[07:58:17.0632] <littledan>
has anyone gotten in touch with vendors? do I need to do this?

[07:58:22.0025] <littledan>
mpcsh: Chris de Almeida ^

[07:58:32.0983] <littledan>
do we want to move these topics to not be considered "breakouts"?

[10:12:52.0344] <littledan>
mpcsh suggested steno.com; I called them and they said that they can't work outside of legal cases

[10:28:35.0484] <littledan>
I got in touch with the folks at https://broadcastcc.com/ and they seemed like a great fit

[10:28:57.0230] <littledan>
They are available during TC39 and the price is $135/hour, which is within the budget that Bloomberg is happy to sponsor for a couple hours

[10:29:09.0378] <littledan>
I talked through the Google Docs workflow and they were up for it

[10:29:24.0337] <littledan>
 * They are available during TC39 and the price is $135/hour, which is within the budget that Bloomberg is happy to sponsor for a couple hours

[10:30:23.0034] <littledan>
How about we try this on Wednesday, July 20th, from 10 AM to noon?

[10:32:24.0224] <littledan>
We would just need to have a short agenda item to introduce the topic, and get everyone's consent for being transcribed in this way

[10:32:49.0363] <littledan>
would people be OK with that? especially chairs, yulia Rob Palmer ryzokuken 

[10:35:19.0367] <yulia>
oh, wow thats neat 

[11:01:38.0595] <Chris de Almeida>
littledan: @christianulbrich:matrix.org contacted `White Coat Captioning`, yesterday, which was suggested in the reflector issue and had done tech confs before.  still waiting on response AFAIK, but I can reach out to him to check.  or if we are definitely going with `IR Broadcast Captioning` we can put the brakes on the conversation with `White Coat Captioning`

[11:03:02.0237] <littledan>
yes, I contacted them as well before seeing that message. I also tried calling them and they didn't pick up

[11:03:23.0399] <littledan>
Christian said that he'd update the thread when he got in touch, and he didn't update

[11:03:42.0151] <littledan>
this whole thing is coming up very soon, so I'm inclined to try broadcastcc.com unless someone sees issues with it

[11:04:25.0008] <littledan>
I expect them to get back with an email summarizing our conversation, which I will post to the Reflector

[11:08:03.0588] <Chris de Almeida>
seems reasonable to me

[11:11:04.0963] <littledan>
Ah, White Coat Captioning got back to me

[11:11:07.0836] <littledan>
"Someone else wrote to us about this yesterday. Unfortunately we are extremely busy next week with several big conferences as well as our usual day to day client work, so we cannot take on anything more. "

[11:11:30.0742] <littledan>
"We are very popular, very well known in the field of tech, and in extremely high demand, so we are booked out far in advance (often many months or a year in advance). "

[11:11:31.0919] <Chris de Almeida>
did the other company have availability?

[11:11:42.0438] <littledan>
yes, they confirmed for the time I wrote above

[11:11:48.0735] <Chris de Almeida>
great

[11:11:56.0992] <littledan>
and I told them that I'd get back within a couple days after confirming with colleagues

[11:12:50.0255] <Chris de Almeida>
I think if we are reasonably sure of their competency, let's just do that.  it's already short notice after all

[11:12:59.0090] <Chris de Almeida>
 * I think if we are reasonably sure of their competency, let's just do that.  it's already short notice after all

[11:13:36.0701] <littledan>
well, yeah, I got a good feeling from them on the phone, but the purpose of the trial run is to assess their competency

[11:14:16.0473] <littledan>
One thing we should do before the meeting is beef up our glossary: https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/main/terminology.md

[11:14:28.0122] <littledan>
or at least just adding words, so that they will have their spellings down

[11:14:34.0888] <littledan>
any transcriptionist will need to use that

[11:22:00.0697] <Chris de Almeida>
yeah, identifying who is speaking is another potential challenge.  the 8x8 interface isn't great at conveying it, and TCQ isn't perfect either

[11:29:26.0179] <littledan>
If the stenographer can't tell, they will place ^^^ in place of the name

[11:29:32.0500] <littledan>
so it can be corrected on-line

[11:30:13.0760] <littledan>
Here are my draft slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FLtYVdf2l3yX0U5NlUC91mcyC5OR8m6CTx77yjqURD8/edit#slide=id.p

[11:31:27.0526] <littledan>
Here's my email from the service:

[11:31:28.0835] <littledan>
Hello, Daniel. Thank you for the call today and inquiry about our services.
 
As discussed, we understand that you have some ongoing meetings that require realtime services and also need to have the ability to have realtime editing of the live file as it proceeds. Editing/updating of the live text would be done by people on your team and taken directly from the live text stream provided by the captioner. The idea is to write directly into Google Docs, share that file, then provide shared access to the document to allow the editing.
 
Our rate for services is billed at $135/hour with a two-hour minimum. We generally will bill services for the time that is scheduled thereafter and if time does exceed the scheduled time, billing is in .25 hour increments for any time that exceeds the scheduled booking time.
 
We also understand that we are potentially scheduled to provide a test of our services on July 20, 2022, 10:00-12:00 PT. This is not yet confirmed, but we have it noted in our system.
 
If you do wish to proceed with that day and time, please advise and we can finalize other information that is needed to proceed.
 
Thank you, and should you have any other questions, please do let me know. Enjoy the rest of your Wednesday!
 
Duane O’Geil
IR Broadcast Captioning
Remote CART | Classroom Captioning | Closed Captioning
Direct - 403.650.3395
Duane on LinkedIn:
https://www.linkedin.com/in/duaneogeil/
Learn about our services at:
www.broadcastcc.com
 

[11:35:03.0764] <littledan>
this all seems good, right?

[11:35:34.0500] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> or at least just adding words, so that they will have their spellings down

yes, it may be more useful to have just a dictionary type list of words/terms/phrases 

[11:36:11.0882] <Chris de Almeida>
steno generally doesn't need the actual definition

[11:37:08.0405] <littledan>
sure, if someone has the time to create that, it'd be great, but they didn't specifically request that it be filtered like that

[11:37:36.0873] <littledan>
I think we should focus efforts on the glossary since it is dual purpose

[11:37:40.0508] <Chris de Almeida>
sure, just trying to lower the bar.  there is a list of just words at the end of the doc

[11:37:53.0671] <littledan>
yeah, good point, it's good to add to that list

[11:38:07.0210] <littledan>
I just mean, we probably shouldn't create an entirely separate doc that we'll have trouble maintaining

[11:38:12.0998] <Chris de Almeida>
sure

[11:38:21.0776] <Chris de Almeida>
IIRC, GHM also has ability to have show/hide sections, so the definitions could be folded, potentially

[11:38:55.0435] <littledan>
I think we should focus on the text rather than putting in a bunch of details elements

[11:39:10.0632] <littledan>
they just didn't ask for a word list; they asked for a document describing what we do

[11:39:21.0943] <littledan>
and I asked if the glossary would maybe work, and they said yes

[11:43:42.0868] <Chris de Almeida>
thanks for doing the slides.  since it came up as a potential issue, it's worth mentioning there that people are not being recorded; the steno is live only (you mention this, but reiterating should obviate potential questions surrounding it)

[11:44:24.0732] <littledan>
I think people can also address questions to the stenographer this way if needed

[11:45:30.0604] <littledan>
I am not sure if the stenographer might want to create a temporary recording for themselves to fix up the transcript if they need it

[11:45:37.0684] <littledan>
also the objection is totally absurd

[11:46:46.0066] <Chris de Almeida>
the objection to audio being recorded?

[11:48:40.0711] <littledan>
yes

[11:49:08.0235] <littledan>
like, if you can't be professional enough in a standards committee to have a private recording made of you for transcription fix-ups... what are you afraid of being seen?

[11:49:31.0960] <littledan>
 * like, if you can't be professional enough in a standards committee to have a private recording made of you for transcription fix-ups... there's something wrong with your conduct

[11:49:57.0925] <littledan>
 * like, if you can't be professional enough in a standards committee to have a private recording made of you for transcription fix-ups... what are you afraid of being seen?

[11:52:36.0310] <ptomato>
to be clear, I don't have any objection and also I totally don't buy the "chilling effect" reasoning ... but I think it's not unreasonable (if somewhat of a stretch) that someone might have concerns about data retention

[11:53:18.0261] <littledan>
I just disagree with the "chilling effect" reasoning, which is the only reason I could see for concern about data retention

[12:09:50.0219] <ljharb>
i totally support that reasoning for a public recording. i don't see why there'd be any objection to the stenographer making a temporary recording for the purposes of notes transcription, since they'd delete the recording once finished

[12:11:42.0627] <littledan>
yeah, any recording here would be private

[12:13:25.0381] <ljharb>
realistically any delegate could be making a private recording, and as long as it was never circulated nobody would know

[12:14:16.0782] <littledan>
/me hurriedly burns his Watergate-esque tapes of the secret meetings just as the investigators arrive

[13:40:53.0373] <Ashley Claymore>
All the times I’ve taken notes over the past year I’ve always been recording into a local buffer so can listen with a delay 

[13:42:07.0873] <Ashley Claymore>
And have mentioned that I do this at the start of a few of the sessions 


2022-07-19
[10:53:20.0317] <Chris de Almeida>
ok so they still want an explanation of why the CoC can't obviate the need for NVC training

[10:53:52.0201] <rkirsling>
it's really silly; they're two different things

[13:41:20.0411] <yulia>
I think there might have been a miscommunication, CoC doesn't handle the kinds of things that NVC provides

[13:41:51.0331] <yulia>
I believe i cleared this up to ecma in fact, but i don't think that istvan got the memo. In any case we can clarify it here as well

[13:42:08.0908] <ryzokuken>
I think we're all the same page here, except Istvan. I'm quite disappointed that Istvan chose to present everything so poorly today without even trying to coordinate it with someone.

[13:42:51.0626] <ryzokuken>
 * I think we're all the same page here, except Istvan. I'm quite disappointed that Istvan chose to present everything so poorly today without even trying to coordinate it with someone.

[13:54:50.0324] <littledan>
I think we should give feedback to Ecma about who we want for TC39 secretary

[13:55:06.0195] <littledan>
 * I think we should give feedback to Ecma about expectations of the role of TC39 secretary


2022-07-20
[11:50:45.0044] <mpcsh>
I missed the very start of plenary yesterday; could someone summarize what Istvan said?

[12:12:02.0485] <Chris de Almeida>
I think the slides say everything; are those up?


2022-07-22
[18:24:44.0340] <mpcsh>
ah yeah, I see that now

[18:25:14.0321] <mpcsh>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> I think we should give feedback to Ecma about expectations of the role of TC39 secretary

I felt like Istvan also overstepped with his _lengthy_ comments about stenography today

[18:25:22.0758] <mpcsh>
like, he's not a delegate, why should he get any input

[18:57:07.0348] <davethegr8>
I’m sorry I missed it, and it doesn’t look like there are recorded notes. Isn’t one of the responsibilities of the secretary to create minutes (not notes) of the meetings?

[20:22:37.0854] <Chris de Almeida>
re: no recorded notes -- the note folks were discouraged from (enabled to stop) taking notes so they could give their undivided attention to the subject at hand

[20:26:36.0268] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> I felt like Istvan also overstepped with his _lengthy_ comments about stenography today

agree.  although the chair(s) do bear responsibility for keeping things moving. though I do understand the challenge there wrt it being the ecma secretary, especially when "do not interrupt me" was forcefully said after an attempt to rein in the polemic

[09:05:22.0617] <davethegr8>
anyone else joining our meeting this morning?

[09:16:24.0306] <Chris de Almeida>
another meeting ran late.  I joined but I'm the only one in the room

[09:16:30.0641] <Chris de Almeida>
 * another meeting ran late.  I joined but I'm the only one

[09:16:39.0424] <Chris de Almeida>
 * another meeting ran late.  I joined but I'm the only one in the room

[09:16:50.0986] <davethegr8>
I'll hop back in :)

[09:40:41.0573] <littledan>
Oops is it still going on? I assumed it was cancelled today 

[09:40:53.0903] <littledan>
It would be good to discuss next steps from this meeting 

[09:41:27.0306] <Chris de Almeida>
no we just finished

[09:41:59.0026] <littledan>
How did it go?

[09:42:13.0764] <Chris de Almeida>
discussed the steno discussion -- Dave wasn't there for it so I gave a thorough recap

[09:42:36.0992] <Chris de Almeida>
also discussed NVC a bit but mostly we agreed we needed a broader group to have a productive discussion

[09:43:29.0382] <mpcsh>
agh sorry y'all - I slept like shit last night and am currently trying to recover

[10:09:27.0253] <ptomato>
oh, sorry, I should've sent my regrets. I couldn't make it

[13:40:34.0933] <littledan>
I guess we should reach out to Yulia and Mark to find a time that works for them for the NVC discussion

