2022-02-04
[08:07:22.0102] <ptomato>
hi! unfortunately I won't be able to make it today

[09:02:42.0561] <davethegr8>
same


2022-02-05
[06:42:42.0480] <Richard Gibson>
I missed as well, and won't make next week either because I'll be out of town


2022-02-18
[23:01:06.0858] <mpcsh>
hey friends! I'm planning to be at our standing meeting tomorrow morning. we can run through any agenda items folks have and then I'd love to spend some time workshopping the NVC funding request that I started a while back. it's mostly done, just needs some polish. see y'all soon :)

[08:02:07.0245] <ptomato>
hi! sorry I can't make it today either. we have an internal meeting

[08:11:57.0075] <Richard Gibson>
does it occupy the full window? I have a conflict during the first half but can join by 30 minutes in

[09:02:42.0845] <mpcsh>
that works üëçüèª

[09:02:58.0875] <mpcsh>
* that works üëçüèª

[09:45:39.0998] <mpcsh>
the NVC funding request is _almost_ done pending some logistical review. if you'd like your name attached to it, please add yourself at the bottom! https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hqXd_xtRuZpvsRbETus70lMdwbp2jRgbQQob29hOUAE

[09:46:54.0043] <mpcsh>
I've already added the folks who contributed to the document / process: ptomato, myself, Dan, Richard Gibson, and davethegr8

[09:51:16.0531] <mpcsh>
 * I've already added the folks who contributed to the document / process: ptomato, myself, Dan, Richard Gibson, davethegr8, and Alissa Renz 

[10:47:57.0968] <ptomato>
I think this letter looks good! thanks for pushing it forward mpcsh 

