2022-04-01
[03:22:34.0711] <mpcsh>
sorry, forgot to post that I'll be unavailable tomorrow morning. will post a status update later on in the day

[06:44:51.0957] <Richard Gibson>
I'll be missing as well due to a conflicting appointment

[06:45:34.0756] <ryzokuken>
can we reschedule the meeting? it directly conflicts with the chairs' meeting too so it's virtually impossible to attend for me

[08:58:27.0733] <Rob Palmer>
hello Inclusion Group, do you have an email address I can reference?

[08:58:47.0024] <Rob Palmer>
I am updating the NVC funding request and wish to attach a single point of contact for this group

[08:59:20.0872] <davethegr8>
afaik we do not have a single email

[09:00:04.0590] <Rob Palmer>
Is there a lead person who would like to take this?

[09:00:18.0768] <Rob Palmer>
Otherwise I'll just give the TC39 chairs' email address.

[09:02:02.0343] <Rob Palmer>
I have updated the letter with the following on the advice from Istvan:

>We expect to the attendee count to be similar to normal plenary numbers, meaning approximately 40-60 TC39 delegates would participate in these sessions.  In order to get maximal benefit from this investment, TC39 would also be willing to advertise these sessions as being open to participants from other Ecma TCs.

[09:09:26.0364] <davethegr8>
These workshops are _highly_ interactive, adding an unknown number of additional participants would mean that the trainers need to bring more staff, which would increase cost

[09:10:53.0387] <Rob Palmer>
In practice I do not think there would be many folk extra attend.  TC39 is the largest committee by far AFAICT.

[09:11:06.0328] <Rob Palmer>
So this is to soften Ecma's decision.

[09:11:15.0101] <Rob Palmer>
Just to check, these workshops run over Zoom right?

[09:11:32.0138] <davethegr8>
They were scoped for online, yeah.

[09:11:38.0559] <Rob Palmer>
good - that is safest

[09:12:21.0255] <Rob Palmer>
Are you happy with the number 40-60?  I am just blanket assuming everyone who attends plenary would attend this.

[09:12:43.0045] <davethegr8>
Let me check, one second.

[09:13:25.0209] <Rob Palmer>
Realistically I could imagine many delegates opting out.  Whilst some folk will be genuinely curious, we are relying on inertia to some extent.

[09:14:03.0781] <Rob Palmer>
But for the purposes of justifying the cost to Ecma, I think we are more likely to succeed by assuming we shall have a full turnout.

[09:15:38.0014] <davethegr8>
In my conversations with Kathy, I quoted up to 80 participants. So 40-60 + some number of other Ecma delegates should be fine.

[09:15:50.0620] <Rob Palmer>
I think we are very safe then.

[09:16:07.0197] <davethegr8>
Agreed!

[09:16:53.0080] <davethegr8>
Probably be the best POC for questions is mpcsh - I've been overwhelmed at my day job for the last 6 months and haven't been able to do anything here. Should have them confirm tho

[09:20:33.0312] <Rob Palmer>
I'll just list chairs.  I need to get this letter out today because ExeCom is next week.

[15:26:36.0755] <ptomato>
> <@pchimento:igalia.com> for me, this time is fine, just bad luck with other things being scheduled over it recently, but it seems like this time might not be the best for several other folks - I'd be happy to start a doodle to pick a new time

sounds like I should definitely start a doodle to pick a new time ðŸ˜… I'll send one out sometime next week


2022-04-04
[12:02:44.0353] <mpcsh>
thanks davethegr8 for fielding those questions! yeah so the update I never got around to on friday was that I had received communications from Rob and Istvan on the proposal and it's moving forward. I'll keep this channel in the loop as it develops further.


2022-04-05
[07:46:04.0440] <ryzokuken>
AP for Inclusion Group: provide more documentation for ECMA ExeCom and ECMA GA to review

[07:46:27.0647] <ryzokuken>
perhaps a programme/agenda of sorts?

[07:46:36.0422] <ryzokuken>
cc mpcsh davethegr8 

[07:55:00.0755] <davethegr8>
https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/issues/2

[07:55:43.0165] <davethegr8>
note: the price listed in that is old, there's a 10% increase because we took so long

[07:56:18.0766] <davethegr8>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> AP for Inclusion Group: provide more documentation for ECMA ExeCom and ECMA GA to review

what does AP mean?

[08:04:26.0954] <ryzokuken>
Action Point

[08:55:03.0601] <ryzokuken>
> <@davethegr8:matrix.org> what does AP mean?

Sorry for trying to be too clever, lol. Please send it to me ASAP so we can have some discussions with the ExeCom before the July GA and approve this ASAP

[08:55:15.0158] <ryzokuken>
* Sorry for trying to be too clever, lol. Please send it to me ASAP so we can have some discussions with the ExeCom before the July GA and approve this at the earliest 

[08:56:43.0140] <davethegr8>
The github issue has the full proposal from Kathy and Itzel. Is there something else you need?

[10:53:25.0099] <ryzokuken>
Oh, I'll send that to the ExeCom and see if that works for them


2022-04-12
[16:05:48.0248] <davethegr8>
Should I/we open an issue on the string dedent proposal regarding the term `whitespace`? It's used frequently there. Reasons for imho: adjacent to non-inclusive terminology, the space isn't really white especially on dark backgrounds. Reasons against: probably that there's not consensus on whether `whitespace` is problematic. Examples: UW doesn't list it (https://itconnect.uw.edu/work/inclusive-language-guide/) but Northwestern does (https://www.it.northwestern.edu/about/it-projects/dei/glossary.html)

[16:08:44.0925] <ljharb>
i've never heard the term described as problematic

[16:09:00.0309] <ljharb>
just referring to a color isn't a problem, it's when use of the color conveys a negative (or positive, i suppose) association

[16:09:13.0196] <ljharb>
"whitespace" isn't good or bad, and neither is "non-whitespace"

[16:12:52.0372] <ljharb>
i think in general folks have to be careful with being too aggressive at eliminating entrenched vocabulary that a group of people hasn't raised issue with; there's a balance to strike. eg "master" on github wasn't something most anyone did anything about until there was a critical mass of people who accepted it wasn't benign

[16:12:53.0790] <ljharb>
thoughts?


2022-04-13
[17:51:40.0834] <rkirsling>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> just referring to a color isn't a problem, it's when use of the color conveys a negative (or positive, i suppose) association

or put differently, when the color is a metaphor for something other than concrete visual light and dark

[17:52:10.0403] <ljharb>
Thatâ€™s better put, thanks

[17:52:59.0845] <rkirsling>
(I think the sentiment part is equally valid, just "yes and"-ing)


2022-04-14
[01:39:59.0097] <mpcsh>
quick take: "whitespace" has never seemed problematic to me because (I believe) the origin was literal white space on paper, from the era of the printing press

[01:40:01.0110] <mpcsh>
 * quick take: "whitespace" has never seemed problematic to me because (I believe) the origin was literal white space on paper, from the era of the printing press

[08:56:37.0034] <ptomato>
in general I think that we should not be in the business of arbitrating whether someone's discomfort with a term has merit, nor respond in a way that makes it look like we are setting ourselves up as the arbitrators of that. which a lot of people tried to do with "master branch" [edit: not talking about TC39 specifically here, just People On The Internet]

[08:56:56.0886] <ptomato>
that said, this would be the first I've heard of anyone having a problem with "whitespace"

[08:57:29.0042] <ptomato>
maybe we should investigate the reason why it's been included in that one style manual advising against it

[08:58:11.0236] <ptomato>
 * in general I think that we should not be in the business of arbitrating whether someone's discomfort with a term has merit, nor respond in a way that makes it look like we are setting ourselves up as the arbitrators of that. which a lot of people tried to do with "master branch" [edit: not talking about TC39 specifically here, just People On The Internet]

[09:00:47.0787] <ljharb>
i agree with both points, but i also think that there has to be *some* arbitration

[09:01:08.0746] <ljharb>
otherwise the absurd slippery slope arguments that detractors claim would have merit (which they otherwise don't)


2022-04-15
[14:48:16.0649] <ptomato>
> <@pchimento:igalia.com> for me, this time is fine, just bad luck with other things being scheduled over it recently, but it seems like this time might not be the best for several other folks - I'd be happy to start a doodle to pick a new time

after another almost empty meeting I was motivated to do this :-)

[14:50:38.0784] <ptomato>
https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/dyPmnrPb - pinging people who I remember have attended recently: Alissa Renz  davethegr8 jasew mpcsh Richard Gibson ryzokuken 


2022-04-18
[09:04:22.0596] <mpcsh>
thanks @ptomato ðŸ˜‡

[09:04:39.0391] <mpcsh>
* thanks @ptomato ðŸ˜‡

[09:06:19.0366] <davethegr8>
I'm just gonna say: all times are equally bad for me for the next few months due to chaos. Please schedule what works for others and if I'm able I will join. And once things are less chaotic I'll plan around the meeting time. :) Thanks!


2022-04-25
[08:53:52.0868] <davethegr8>
hi friends! my team is hiring, so if you're interested in coming to work for/with me, I would <3 to talk! Reason I'm posting here is that if y'all know someone, I'd also <3 to talk to them 


2022-04-27
[07:03:13.0732] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
> <@davethegr8:matrix.org> The github issue has the full proposal from Kathy and Itzel. Is there something else you need?

Hello all! I sent it out to them and it seems like they already had this info, which means they're asking for even more detail. Can we give any more context?

[07:19:58.0535] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
> The ExeCom asked for more information on the training and the program content in particular.

[08:04:33.0709] <davethegr8>
could you elaborate? what are they looking for and why is the information provided not sufficient?

[08:05:16.0650] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
> <@usharma:igalia.com> > The ExeCom asked for more information on the training and the program content in particular.

this is exactly the quote of what they said, that they'd like to hear about the content of the training in greater detail

[08:05:35.0922] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
that said, you all must've received an email with a doodle

[08:06:11.0011] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
the final aim would be to settle any remaining doubts in one or more meetings so that we can get the final green flag

[08:11:41.0079] <davethegr8>
Haven't seen any doodles in email, plus my day job is overwhelming me right now. I don't understand what their questions are about - this is a customized program for us based on the NVC model and trainer certifications. NVC is a global thing, it's not like we found this system randomly. This method has been specifically requested by delegates in the past so I really don't see why the ExeCom doesn't have enough information to make a decision. The only other things I could provide are this issue https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130 and the cnvc.org website.

[08:20:59.0475] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
I already sent the text from the issue to them.

[09:16:12.0279] <davethegr8>
(for folks here if your email got filtered like mine, subject is: "Discussion on organizing a non-violent communication training")

[09:28:05.0388] <ptomato>
I got the email, but I agree it does seem a bit mysterious what the ExeCom is asking for. if they could say what that is, it seems likely that we could give clarification in an email and not have to burden everyone with a meeting

[11:31:39.0432] <ljharb>
i didn't get it

[12:47:29.0966] <ljharb>
oh wait no, i got it! ecma keeps emailing my work address despite me constantly telling them to use my personal one

[12:51:59.0318] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
ljharb: in my defense, I gave them your personal email but Patrick somehow took the extra effort of looking up everyone's work email ðŸ¤¦

[12:52:22.0372] <ljharb>
no worries, i 100% already assumed that. it's not the first time :-)

[12:52:32.0245] <ljharb>
 * no worries, i 100% already assumed that. it's not the first time :-)

[12:53:25.0114] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
/me is still surprised sometimes by how employer-centric so many ECMA things are

[12:53:41.0111] <ryzokuken âœˆðŸ¡>
/me * is still surprised sometimes by how employer-centric so many ECMA things are


2022-04-28
[09:37:43.0113] <mpcsh>
has anyone replied to Patrick? I can reply all if folks would like, and ask for the clarifications we need

[09:48:16.0714] <ptomato>
that would be great

[09:48:21.0437] <ptomato>
I haven't replied, in any case

[09:48:49.0548] <ryzokuken>
I did talk to him, but it'd be better if you did, I lack much context myself sadly 


2022-04-29
[08:39:01.0881] <ptomato>
we have a meeting scheduled at our old time, in 20 minutes - I haven't gotten a lot of responses to the doodle for a new time yet, so there isn't one. are people planning to attend today?

[09:00:16.0814] <mpcsh>
I am, yes

