2023-03-02
[23:24:45.0916] <mpcsh>
first meeting on the new schedule in about 12 hours! thread your agenda items here

[09:37:41.0875] <Chris de Almeida>
NVC training update?

[10:55:28.0381] <mpcsh>
ah lol I didn't hit send on my reply last night ‚Äî that was my one item as well

[11:01:48.0116] <ptomato>
sorry, I can't make it today

[11:33:29.0078] <mpcsh>
recap:
- unfortunately, for various administrative & personal-capacity reasons, we've likely missed the train with NVC training.
- action item for next meeting: reflect on communication problems & phenomena that we observe during the course of committee work
- agenda for next meeting: share & discuss those items, brainstorm lower-friction alternatives to NVC training

[11:35:13.0071] <mpcsh>
also: dates aren't firm yet, but I will likely be deep in the cascade mountains on an expedition during the next meeting (april 6). I'll reschedule for the thursday prior (march 30, same time) if need be, and if there are no objections.


2023-03-03
[09:59:22.0782] <Chris de Almeida>
https://www.pndc.com/offerings/
ü§î

[10:16:13.0538] <littledan>
hmm, I like that title

[10:16:28.0187] <littledan>
but the S word is on that site!

[10:21:06.0319] <Chris de Almeida>
wait, the what word?

[10:21:56.0655] <Chris de Almeida>
ohhh

[10:22:31.0094] <Chris de Almeida>
different context though -- critically

[10:34:25.0266] <Chris de Almeida>
alright, so for the folks who weren't at our meeting yesterday, one of the concerns/objections raised about the NVC training was the connection to 'spirituality'.

objection to the training on those grounds is totally valid.  moreover, I would be surprised if there was a plurality of folks who would support the training if there was a religious component to it.

AFAICT, they (NVC and its minions) define spirituality in very loose terms -- namely, referring just to life and human relationships, and there is nothing about spirituality/religious influence substantively in the book.  it does talk about NVC as a way to resolve conflict amongst people living closely and observing disparate religions.

so, I think NVC is still viable, but only if we can get assurance (and assure our colleagues) that there is no religious angle

[10:36:13.0350] <Chris de Almeida>
I think it would go a long way if we could get someone who does these trainings to speak/present at plenary and answer questions

[13:19:19.0780] <littledan>
yeah, if someone wants to take on bringing a trainer or at least a more detailed curriculum around communication training to plenary, the March meeting is your chance--this is the deadline set last fall, when the ExeCom was discussing the non-engagement from this group about the previous action items that we were given in the June 2022 GA meeting. The actions were to bring a more detailed explanation of what the course is, and to get broad buy-in from committee on this (2/3 majority, at least; not asking for full consensus)

[13:19:57.0202] <littledan>
[As mentioned above, due to many personal capacity issues--which I share!--we each dropped the ball on this previously. If someone wants to pick it up, now is the time.]

[13:51:10.0555] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/Admin-and-Business/issues/130#issuecomment-825011281

[13:51:28.0632] <Chris de Almeida>
ok so this got a direct response -- which I think we all forgot about?

[13:51:54.0317] <littledan>
this is an answer to the spirituality part but it doesn't walk through the curriculum in more detail

[13:52:03.0027] <Chris de Almeida>
right

[13:52:08.0648] <littledan>
the request from ExeCom was not about spirituality

[13:52:16.0322] <Chris de Almeida>
yeah I wasn't referring to that

[13:52:20.0175] <littledan>
ah OK

[13:52:51.0254] <Chris de Almeida>
but that part was throwing me off because it's a potential showstopper.  

[13:53:22.0205] <littledan>
I see

[13:56:35.0292] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/inclusion-group/files/6142871/Communication.Training.for.TC39.Group.21-03-08.pdf

littledan was this proposal presented/provided at the GA ? 

[14:13:40.0729] <littledan>
No. The request was to provide it at plenary, not at the GA

[14:13:49.0290] <littledan>
I don't think it was shared there either

[14:15:13.0811] <Chris de Almeida>
>  next they wanted to have a more detailed proposal about what this project is about, with more details to the general assembly, and this contribution should be prepared by the TC39 chairs

[14:17:34.0232] <Chris de Almeida>
do you think the level of detail in the proposal is sufficient for the request?

[14:18:28.0786] <littledan>
I guess you'd want to not just share the document but talk through how it applies to us, and then get buy-in from the committee

[14:18:43.0433] <Chris de Almeida>
what I'm trying to discern is whether or not we have what we need from the training folks

[14:18:54.0247] <littledan>
Yeah, I dunno, maybe ask msaboff or waldemar?

[14:18:59.0649] <littledan>
and share this with them?

[14:19:06.0785] <littledan>
or bakkot

[14:19:16.0639] <littledan>
bakkot should be available to talk this through


2023-03-16
[12:34:43.0531] <mpcsh>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> also: dates aren't firm yet, but I will likely be deep in the cascade mountains on an expedition during the next meeting (april 6). I'll reschedule for the thursday prior (march 30, same time) if need be, and if there are no objections.

so this is locked in¬†‚Äî I ended up with a conflict on march 30, so our next meeting will be april 13 at 11am PDT / 2pm EDT / 7pm GMT / 8pm CEST. see you all then!

[12:34:56.0593] <mpcsh>
> <@mpcsh_:matrix.org> recap:
> - unfortunately, for various administrative & personal-capacity reasons, we've likely missed the train with NVC training.
> - action item for next meeting: reflect on communication problems & phenomena that we observe during the course of committee work
> - agenda for next meeting: share & discuss those items, brainstorm lower-friction alternatives to NVC training

and just a reminder on the agenda ‚òùÔ∏è


2023-03-27
[16:01:45.0086] <davethegr8>
This is awesome: https://twitter.com/LeaVerou/status/1639043004190031876 -- I'm curious: are there are other folks who are not delegates but should be?


2023-03-28
[09:05:52.0995] <Chris de Almeida>
I would hope that if people desired to contribute, or become a delegate (or an IE), they would affect a way to do so.

[09:11:59.0392] <Chris de Almeida>
 * I would hope that if people desired to contribute, they would do so, whether or not that involves becoming a delegate/IE.

