[
{"content":{"body":"sffc: Monday afternoon meetup sounds good.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@sffc:mozilla.org\">sffc</a>: Monday afternoon meetup sounds good.","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@sffc:mozilla.org"]},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762494963977,"senderName":"eemeli","senderId":"@eemeli:mozilla.org","id":"$CIC6NaY0SQVzSZbL0z2gRT9rzL20rnc4cJDcZGHVaiI"},
{"content":{"body":"How are people feeling about putting Amount up again for Stage 2? Are we waiting on anything in particular?\n\n(If we're waiting on the Google position, I'm still working on it, but I don't expect it to be significantly different from the one in September: the type needs to be designed to encourage string formatting and discourage round-trip conversion to numbers)","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762539357396,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$BfB1gVayorgPclkHu50g8rQAcaIGWcUdB6JTMr8kkKw"},
{"content":{"body":"I just put together a proposal for the Intl unit protocol, since multiple delegates have observed that it is separable from Amount, and since it is a prerequisite for Amount due to polyfills and proxies, and since it might be easier to get consensus to advance. Would you like to add this to the agenda?\n\nhttps://github.com/sffc/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762546036121,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$_NzNg-ajPflKI4GthrDNnzbQebKBtdny5W9W6pjuYrk"},
{"content":{"body":"* I just put together a proposal for the Intl unit protocol, since multiple delegates have observed that it is separable from Amount, and since it is a prerequisite for Amount due to polyfills and proxies, and since it might be easier to get consensus to advance. Do you think I should add this to the agenda?\n\nhttps://github.com/sffc/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/","m.mentions":{},"m.new_content":{"body":"I just put together a proposal for the Intl unit protocol, since multiple delegates have observed that it is separable from Amount, and since it is a prerequisite for Amount due to polyfills and proxies, and since it might be easier to get consensus to advance. Do you think I should add this to the agenda?\n\nhttps://github.com/sffc/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$_NzNg-ajPflKI4GthrDNnzbQebKBtdny5W9W6pjuYrk","rel_type":"m.replace"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762546141540,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$hV4ovndMD5CkYqHNKuABJztPE0M5PSdzermG2fLfjf4"},
{"content":{"body":"the only blocker I was aware of is unblocked","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@sffc:mozilla.org"]},"m.relates_to":{"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$BfB1gVayorgPclkHu50g8rQAcaIGWcUdB6JTMr8kkKw"}},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762547305690,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$iUIw-hIhZKYEahePBtro5Z8wMJEjf0v6IP8AlZgVL1I"},
{"content":{"body":"ok, I lean toward adding it to the agenda, and we can pull it if we feel we need to","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762551310716,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$62ASsCmqum9M6fzT_rehA-VXnAx_wr1cKpMh_rdIdzA"},
{"content":{"body":"Give it a 30m or 45m timebox, because I don't want to get bogged down in more nitpicking. Any nitpicking should be resolved ahead of time, and the Monday afternoon event should help with that some.","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762551392601,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$rePnd3y3SQsAJhOd2yMH2OmSknFLIQ81mQiA8zIRpT8"},
{"content":{"body":"I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes, but I won't have time to add slides until after the deadline","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@sffc:mozilla.org"]},"m.relates_to":{"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$rePnd3y3SQsAJhOd2yMH2OmSknFLIQ81mQiA8zIRpT8"}},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762554875727,"senderName":"Ben Allen","senderId":"@benallen:igalia.com","id":"$40LQqsJLzEPKN7CRKe8c1oPAWMtFOdYBgkkr8cOVgMc"},
{"content":{"body":"* I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes","m.mentions":{},"m.new_content":{"body":"I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@sffc:mozilla.org"]},"msgtype":"m.text"},"m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$40LQqsJLzEPKN7CRKe8c1oPAWMtFOdYBgkkr8cOVgMc","rel_type":"m.replace"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762554941968,"senderName":"Ben Allen","senderId":"@benallen:igalia.com","id":"$Lyks3HcgbU06sFTMpPBfcxX2nsPkJas8k1RbErLN2do"},
{"content":{"body":"* I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes.","m.mentions":{},"m.new_content":{"body":"I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes.","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@sffc:mozilla.org"]},"msgtype":"m.text"},"m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$40LQqsJLzEPKN7CRKe8c1oPAWMtFOdYBgkkr8cOVgMc","rel_type":"m.replace"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762556319254,"senderName":"Ben Allen","senderId":"@benallen:igalia.com","id":"$hoQAES5Aqvhpyw-YoeiQINyvUu6PbroYpSE8IPecsoA"},
{"content":{"body":"I feel like pushing for Stage 2 for Amount and separately proposing a new Intl unit protocol are rushing things, once again. My understanding of where we left things on the 30 Oct Numerics call was to _not_ propose an Amount item for the plenary, and instead discuss it further separately, as we won't have time to account for input coming from next week's W3C breakout session on the HTML Amount proposal.\n\nI also don't think that the Amount spec text is necessarily in the shape that it should be, as it still contains at least this in ToIntlMathematicalValue():\n> If value has the [[Value]] and [[FractionDigits]] internal slots, let primValue be RenderAmountValueWithFractionDigits(value.[[Value]], value.[[FractionDigits]])\n\nI thought we didn't want to rely on the internal slots? There are probably other places in the spec that also need to be checked that they're in line with what we actually want. Also, not having slides ready in time for the cutoff is a bad look.\n\nRegarding the Intl unit protocol proposal, that doesn't have TG2 approval yet, right?","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>I feel like pushing for Stage 2 for Amount and separately proposing a new Intl unit protocol are rushing things, once again. My understanding of where we left things on the 30 Oct Numerics call was to <em>not</em> propose an Amount item for the plenary, and instead discuss it further separately, as we won't have time to account for input coming from next week's W3C breakout session on the HTML Amount proposal.</p>\n<p>I also don't think that the Amount spec text is necessarily in the shape that it should be, as it still contains at least this in ToIntlMathematicalValue():</p>\n<blockquote>\n<p>If value has the [[Value]] and [[FractionDigits]] internal slots, let primValue be RenderAmountValueWithFractionDigits(value.[[Value]], value.[[FractionDigits]])</p>\n</blockquote>\n<p>I thought we didn't want to rely on the internal slots? There are probably other places in the spec that also need to be checked that they're in line with what we actually want. Also, not having slides ready in time for the cutoff is a bad look.</p>\n<p>Regarding the Intl unit protocol proposal, that doesn't have TG2 approval yet, right?</p>\n","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762559158589,"senderName":"eemeli","senderId":"@eemeli:mozilla.org","id":"$lEQH46QQg01oO7WOO4hAMQsxi9FGTltSmzi54TAuGW4"},
{"content":{"body":"Does this mean that the Amount spec text and README are not up-to-date with everything we need from Mark Miller and Waldemar?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762559265142,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$gETjzCNmeH7Vm27FwzrE3BeUSu1lOmWEicf6uI-sK3E"},
{"content":{"body":"I sent an email to TG2 to notify them about my intent to ask for Stage 1 for the Unit protocol","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1762559331693,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$HbUOI2zRYydpY0XhZlcGYDK52fmegQo4sWJwbQrFVmA"}
]