[
{"content":{"body":"ok. Here's my mental model of the state of things:\n\n- We have a good framework from last time about how we would support Infinity, -0, NaN. We don't have full champion alignment yet, and we need to figure out next steps on how to get that alignment in advance of the next TG1 meeting.\n- We should ask for a W3C review of the proposal soon.\n- The bounds limit issue is being addressed separately and was subject of today's TG3 call. I plan to make a standalone timebox for that issue at the next TG1 meeting.\n- We should make sure that the README and spec text are up-to-date with the latest agreements from TG1 and the champions meeting, such as currency not (?) being special cased, and rounding on the way in.\n- Eemeli raised in last week's TG2 meeting that there were outstanding issues to discuss. Maybe we can get a headstart in the numerics champions call.\n\nI'm fine skipping tomorrow's meeting, but next time (on Sep 4) we should meet and discuss those outstanding issues and what if anything we need to do in order to prepare for the rapidly approaching September TG1 meeting.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>ok. Here's my mental model of the state of things:</p>\n<ul>\n<li>We have a good framework from last time about how we would support Infinity, -0, NaN. We don't have full champion alignment yet, and we need to figure out next steps on how to get that alignment in advance of the next TG1 meeting.</li>\n<li>We should ask for a W3C review of the proposal soon.</li>\n<li>The bounds limit issue is being addressed separately and was subject of today's TG3 call. I plan to make a standalone timebox for that issue at the next TG1 meeting.</li>\n<li>We should make sure that the README and spec text are up-to-date with the latest agreements from TG1 and the champions meeting, such as currency not (?) being special cased, and rounding on the way in.</li>\n<li>Eemeli raised in last week's TG2 meeting that there were outstanding issues to discuss. Maybe we can get a headstart in the numerics champions call.</li>\n</ul>\n<p>I'm fine skipping tomorrow's meeting, but next time (on Sep 4) we should meet and discuss those outstanding issues and what if anything we need to do in order to prepare for the rapidly approaching September TG1 meeting.</p>\n","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755738069904,"senderName":"sffc","senderId":"@sffc:mozilla.org","id":"$XHMK_O70my4i1AGspp7VEctkiIz2UDDTOX9_eA2pEt8"},
{"content":{"body":"can someone (maybe Chris de Almeida ?) Ben Allen to the Google event for the biweekly JS numerics call? It seems I can't","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"can someone (maybe <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@softwarechris:matrix.org\">Chris de Almeida</a> ?) <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@benallen:igalia.com\">Ben Allen</a> to the Google event for the biweekly JS numerics call? It seems I can't","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@softwarechris:matrix.org","@benallen:igalia.com"]},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755779086550,"senderName":"Jesse","senderId":"@jesse:igalia.com","id":"$TdBgLTN93k33mGLxNYpGvD4GftQy7cy14tqf4tEbFm0"},
{"content":{"body":"the README and spec are indeed aligned with what we was discussed (and supported) in plenary -- we do round on the way in (and do not support rounding on the way out), as well as currency not being special case (indeed, support for it was removed entirely)","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755784531781,"senderName":"Jesse","senderId":"@jesse:igalia.com","id":"$xKQuI0aJleWCIY9ZtsNqBCH2yWqZg5UnzIxLnK3lu_E"},
{"content":{"body":"curious to hear what additional issues you have in mind E-emeli -- feel free to add items to the agenda (for the next time you can attend)","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755784609006,"senderName":"Jesse","senderId":"@jesse:igalia.com","id":"$-0Wc2YlHSUDU2OnOsrjTIorg5Hbqxzo4BSL2BWR2AaU"},
{"content":{"body":"whom at W3C could we ask for a review?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755784642393,"senderName":"Jesse","senderId":"@jesse:igalia.com","id":"$I3TR7rhk-J4fZJ9YRlCr8h9anxKwlaEhV06S7woDIds"},
{"content":{"body":"independent of the infinity etc. discussion there are also some spec text issues that WH had we need to take care of; I'm happy to tackle those bits","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755784759265,"senderName":"Jesse","senderId":"@jesse:igalia.com","id":"$e5wAV6D22_Pj36MG9yE4_DVr_2jWcQZ6HWmRk2rTFgU"},
{"content":{"body":"do what?","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@jesse:igalia.com"]},"m.relates_to":{"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$TdBgLTN93k33mGLxNYpGvD4GftQy7cy14tqf4tEbFm0"}},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1755789606610,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$8F4LOT79wVmi8ivoj6qTI2WIQLb6N5IDIccbfCsnTJw"}
]