2022-02-04
[11:35:35.0120] <TabAtkins>
It feels like it would be appropriate to do a presentation at the March meeting to get the committee's temperature again, and finally resolve the topic token issue, in anticipation of asking for Stage 3 at probably the following meeting after that. Does this sound good to everyone, or do we still have concerns?

