[
{"content":{"body":"for the next meeting: we do actually have software under TC39's github org - ecmarkup, polyfills in proposal repos, etc - so i think we need an org-wide security policy. what should go in it? where do we tell people to report?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1707797126805,"senderName":"ljharb","senderId":"@ljharb:matrix.org","id":"$mNw92mNUtV7xkcQCmyvsvu-EWE8W3GyiZzvzND9_BAA"},
{"content":{"body":"üì¢ reminder we have our EMEA-friendly meeting today/tomorrow:\n\n```\n|              |                 |\n| -----------: | --------------- |\n| US / Central | 12:00 Wednesday |\n|          UTC | 17:00 Wednesday |\n|        China | 01:00 Thursday  |\n```\n\nhttps://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2024/2024-02-14.md\n\n‚òùÔ∏è tentative agenda is here. please update the agenda with any discussion items/topics you have","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>üì¢ reminder we have our EMEA-friendly meeting today/tomorrow:</p>\n<pre><code>|              |                 |\n| -----------: | --------------- |\n| US / Central | 12:00 Wednesday |\n|          UTC | 17:00 Wednesday |\n|        China | 01:00 Thursday  |\n</code></pre>\n<p>https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2024/2024-02-14.md</p>\n<p>‚òùÔ∏è tentative agenda is here. please update the agenda with any discussion items/topics you have</p>\n","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@ljharb:matrix.org"]},"m.relates_to":{"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$mNw92mNUtV7xkcQCmyvsvu-EWE8W3GyiZzvzND9_BAA"}},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1707852899837,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$jhfhsAbyYpNOIehPc5vcvhSb_gnX9lCgc-kTQ9mVZvE"}
]