2022-06-02
[13:12:55.0776] <jmdyck>
@bakkot: done.

[15:05:16.0310] <bakkot>
jmdyck: thanks! gonna hold off on merging until after this meeting, I think, since we have a few regex proposals up at this meeting and they're written as diffs against the existing spec

[15:05:27.0156] <bakkot>
but will land after that, and get the proposals rebased

[15:45:14.0804] <jmdyck>
ok

