2023-03-01
[18:13:31.0968] <Michael Ficarra>
thanks, I responded

[21:59:42.0867] <ljharb>
any thoughts on https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/3020#issuecomment-1441743282 ?

[09:57:21.0034] <Michael Ficarra>
yeah I think they're right and the solution is indeed to move the step into the derived path

[11:25:01.0383] <ljharb>
that was what i was suspecting but i find it hard to believe nobody would have noticed that while implementing class fields

[11:30:46.0508] <shu>
why is that hard to believe? ðŸ™ƒ

[13:29:01.0785] <Rob Palmer>
Is it possible that implementations are inefficient today due to the double init? 

[13:30:11.0568] <shu>
no, looks like no implementations do double init

[13:30:23.0740] <shu>
purely a spec bug

[14:32:18.0333] <jmdyck>
Is there a meeting?

[14:33:21.0393] <Michael Ficarra>
yes

[14:35:19.0930] <jmdyck>
"Sorry, we encountered a problem joining this video call."

[14:38:04.0737] <jmdyck>
The URL is the one that ends in pcz?

[14:41:35.0698] <ljharb>
yes

[14:42:40.0869] <jmdyck>
then I guess google just doesn't like me any more.

[15:00:27.0564] <ljharb>
that's very strange. are you logged in to the google account on the invite?

[15:00:41.0206] <ljharb>
(i'd still expect you to be able to get to it if not, to be clear)

[15:01:07.0491] <jmdyck>
I don't think I ever got an invite

[15:06:53.0942] <jmdyck>
Apparently, being logged into google made the difference.

[15:07:36.0994] <jmdyck>
But I'm pretty sure it hasn't been necessary in the past.

[15:14:38.0578] <ljharb>
yeah it shouldn't be

[15:25:00.0482] <Michael Ficarra>
I was logged out when I initially attempted to join, and it let me put a name in and ask to join (I didn't, I logged in, but it would have let me)

[15:25:30.0018] <jmdyck>
That's normally what I get.


2023-03-02
[18:11:24.0719] <Michael Ficarra>
I can't stop thinking about identity ðŸ˜©

[20:12:11.0832] <shu>
go on a bike ride

[20:12:13.0692] <shu>
live in the moment

[20:12:17.0817] <shu>
your identity is your own

[21:48:52.0293] <ljharb>
be grateful nobody's trying to abbreviate it in the spec and figure out the capitalization :-p

[21:48:55.0631] <ljharb>
 * be grateful nobody's trying to abbreviate it in the spec and figure out the capitalization :-p

[09:03:03.0494] <shu>
i get that reference and am triggered


2023-03-04
[06:51:43.0992] <jmdyck>
Github says "Now, GitHub will help potential first-time contributors discover issues labeled with (good first issue)", but ecma262 has the (good first patch) label instead. Is that because we don't want GitHub's help?

[12:27:54.0654] <ljharb>
no, itâ€™s just that the label predates github supporting it


2023-03-07
[08:59:03.0187] <Michael Ficarra>
let's rename it

[08:59:06.0231] <Michael Ficarra>
I'd love some new contributors

[09:07:56.0516] <jmdyck>
re new contributors, note that https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/3025 is the person's first ever PR


2023-03-08
[14:32:19.0914] <shu>
waiting for people to get out of meeting room, will be a minute


2023-03-09
[16:31:48.0405] <shu>
https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/3027 interested in thoughts


2023-03-10
[13:45:57.0570] <ljharb>
any thoughts on jmdyck's comments on https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2997#pullrequestreview-1335591901 before i merge it?

[14:13:32.0037] <jmdyck>
(I didn't notice that it was already 'ready to merge'.)

[14:30:50.0236] <Michael Ficarra>
I'm fine either accepting them before merge or asking jmdyck to submit a separate PR for them

[14:31:05.0253] <Michael Ficarra>
they don't hurt but also aren't necessary to merge

[15:21:24.0081] <ljharb>
if the suggestions are good as is, i can pull them in as part of rebasing


2023-03-11
[19:23:28.0228] <Michael Ficarra>
yeah they're fine


2023-03-13
[09:32:28.0407] <Michael Ficarra>
we should discuss Istvan's email at the beginning of the next editor call

[10:44:13.0258] <ljharb>
what email?

[12:18:30.0814] <ljharb>
why does he need that info in his slides? both 262 and 402 have separate items for that

[12:18:57.0294] <ljharb>
maybe "Thanks! There's no need to mention either, though, since we both have individual agenda items for that exact purpose."

[12:27:07.0513] <Michael Ficarra>
I don't know, we should talk about it

[14:13:44.0910] <shu>
test

[14:37:18.0190] <shu>
i kept getting "cannot send message"

[14:37:45.0140] <shu>
why don't we just use discord or something, actually?

[15:03:41.0643] <ljharb>
oof, discord's UX is horrific

[15:10:27.0057] <shu>
i'll tell you what else is horrific UX, not being able to send messages

[15:11:40.0686] <ljharb>
ha, true enough

[15:13:37.0956] <shu>
but i don't use discord either actually

[15:30:11.0439] <bakkot>
> <@shuyuguo:matrix.org> why don't we just use discord or something, actually?

we couldn't get them to update their terms of service to allow public logs, which are a requirement from the lawyers

[15:30:28.0773] <bakkot>
personally I would be happy to go back to irc, but alas

[15:30:32.0940] <shu>
me too

[15:30:45.0685] <shu>
ah yes i remember the log thing now

[15:30:51.0662] <shu>
i had stricken that whole episode from memory

[15:34:42.0742] <Michael Ficarra>
it was Feb 2020, so our focus shifted pretty abruptly right afterward


2023-03-15
[14:36:48.0676] <ljharb>
my comcast *and* verizon is down rn so i won't be in the call, lmk if there's any repo stuff

[15:14:30.0264] <Michael Ficarra>
ljharb: We're trying to get the symbols as weakmap keys PR in this week. We'll ping you when it's ready. Can you be on the look out so we can get that merged as soon as it's ready?

[15:37:58.0192] <ljharb>
will do

[16:13:47.0134] <shu>
Michael Ficarra: bakkot https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/3027 PTAL

[16:17:46.0577] <bakkot>
nice, I like it

[16:25:23.0883] <shu>
okay let me rebase #2777 on top of this

[16:27:17.0514] <Michael Ficarra>
okay so the important part of the PR is `Note that Symbols produced by Symbol.for are a special case; they have identity from the perspective of this specification but do not have identity from the perspective of the ECMAScript language.`

[16:27:37.0056] <Michael Ficarra>
I don't know if the reader knows what "but do not have identity from the perspective of the ECMAScript language" means

[16:27:45.0458] <Michael Ficarra>
 * okay so the important part of the PR is "Note that Symbols produced by Symbol.for are a special case; they have identity from the perspective of this specification but do not have identity from the perspective of the ECMAScript language."

[16:27:54.0786] <shu>
i'd say there're 2 important parts: 1) rejiggering the definition of identity to be about "comparison for equality" in the abstract instead of defining an operation over the word "is" and 2) that sentence

[16:28:08.0818] <Michael Ficarra>
I think we should probably talk about what the *consequence* is instead

[16:28:19.0362] <shu>
the consequence?

[16:29:57.0285] <shu>
 think the practical consequence is... you keep using the word "identity" as you understand it, and i correct you where i think we need to distinguish Symbol.for 

[16:30:02.0949] <shu>
which should be exceedingly rare

[16:30:29.0216] <Michael Ficarra>
also it talks about language values as if they're not specification values, but we mix them so thoroughly that I don't think we should really avoid that reality

[16:31:19.0446] <shu>
what

[16:31:33.0696] <shu>
we say "specification or ECMAScript language value" all the time

[16:31:44.0029] <shu>
or am i misunderstanding what you mean by mixing

[16:32:21.0679] <Michael Ficarra>
we do?

[16:32:32.0195] <Michael Ficarra>
not that I see

[16:33:41.0208] <shu>
"Types are further subclassified into ECMAScript language types and specification types"

[16:33:48.0017] <shu>
what do you think that sentence means

[16:34:42.0937] <shu>
like, there's a list of language types, which are inhabited by the language values

[16:34:47.0627] <shu>
and the other stuff are specification types

[16:34:49.0321] <shu>
and spec values

[16:34:56.0743] <Michael Ficarra>
what do we call the type of all values used in the spec?

[16:35:08.0905] <Michael Ficarra>
I have been calling that specification values

[16:35:08.0972] <shu>
i don't think we have need of that word

[16:35:16.0272] <shu>
that is not what specification values as used means

[16:35:32.0016] <shu>
i guess those are just "values" simplicter

[16:36:28.0652] <shu>
"A specification type corresponds to meta-values that are used within algorithms to describe the semantics of ECMAScript language constructs and ECMAScript language types."

[16:36:37.0949] <Michael Ficarra>
I see

[16:42:28.0386] <shu>
with that clarification, any other concerns?

[16:43:57.0399] <Michael Ficarra>
I'm writing a suggestion

