[
{"content":{"body":"is this something we should consider adding to our agenda next time? https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/pull/381#discussion_r659920511","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1624899193751,"senderName":"ptomato","senderId":"@pchimento:igalia.com","id":"$xpR1xNwnyG-nwqQnBmDbjVbomZtkBRQ_FubPSep8mUc"},
{"content":{"body":"Not sure what you mean, what would we talk about?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1624905343680,"senderName":"davethegr8","senderId":"@davethegr8:matrix.org","id":"$eNMqwasnXQl6er0uDAC3Fv4fBe9wBSRaRRwYvJR9x1o"},
{"content":{"body":"is there something controversial about it?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1624906913825,"senderName":"ljharb","senderId":"@ljharb:matrix.org","id":"$O0LxC-xifb2TM5LXKTIZve9BZE-FMy-v7WtEDTaB4y8"},
{"content":{"body":"not at all controversial, just whether this is something we have the ability to pick up","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1624908515999,"senderName":"ptomato","senderId":"@pchimento:igalia.com","id":"$VrKb_S8ynxOY_JWEp5DeGXvx88-Sz3Q8ui3lYdaychU"},
{"content":{"body":"sure, we can throw anything on the agenda we like :-)","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1624924230906,"senderName":"ljharb","senderId":"@ljharb:matrix.org","id":"$Ev2Wg5QfD8DtzAXsIHQIvDyzfSUeWY63S_VtH3fzet4"},
{"content":{"body":"typically repo management is left up to the repo owners, unless it's going to affect the wider group - the chairs, in this case","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1624924261064,"senderName":"ljharb","senderId":"@ljharb:matrix.org","id":"$8Uqbx_ysloVkPAoB0FsNFavsrG8bQZRyiJ2IEhHQ9Bc"}
]