[
{"content":{"body":"> <@littledan:matrix.org> An IBM TC39 delegate is Szabolcs https://twitter.com/_Nec\n\nnot sure what the context was but there are currently four delegates for IBM:  myself, Szabolcs Szabolcsi-Tóth, Joe Sepi, and Péter Frivalszky-Mayer","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<mx-reply><blockquote><a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org/$1W0MICoygjBIeR4dn7G5N4wlvoS4t3JThNH9Iij82V4?via=matrix.org&via=igalia.com&via=mozilla.org\">In reply to</a> <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@littledan:matrix.org\">@littledan:matrix.org</a><br>An IBM TC39 delegate is Szabolcs https://twitter.com/_Nec</blockquote></mx-reply>not sure what the context was but there are currently four delegates for IBM:  myself, Szabolcs Szabolcsi-Tóth, Joe Sepi, and Péter Frivalszky-Mayer","m.relates_to":{"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$1W0MICoygjBIeR4dn7G5N4wlvoS4t3JThNH9Iij82V4"}},"msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.message":[{"body":"> <@littledan:matrix.org> An IBM TC39 delegate is Szabolcs https://twitter.com/_Nec\n\nnot sure what the context was but there are currently four delegates for IBM:  myself, Szabolcs Szabolcsi-Tóth, Joe Sepi, and Péter Frivalszky-Mayer","mimetype":"text/plain"},{"body":"<mx-reply><blockquote><a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/!DgpygRnlCHLTRbahDa:matrix.org/$1W0MICoygjBIeR4dn7G5N4wlvoS4t3JThNH9Iij82V4?via=matrix.org&via=igalia.com&via=mozilla.org\">In reply to</a> <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@littledan:matrix.org\">@littledan:matrix.org</a><br>An IBM TC39 delegate is Szabolcs https://twitter.com/_Nec</blockquote></mx-reply>not sure what the context was but there are currently four delegates for IBM:  myself, Szabolcs Szabolcsi-Tóth, Joe Sepi, and Péter Frivalszky-Mayer","mimetype":"text/html"}]},"ts":1656008869386,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$rKAk6kXHQFchJaHq92Or_yG8IzaOES6Aun6-3whtjH0"},
{"content":{"body":"Chris de Almeida: Ah good to hear from you! I wanted to get in touch with IBM's delegation to understand what your position is on some inclusion issues, which are under discussion at the Ecma level.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@softwarechris:matrix.org\">Chris de Almeida</a>: Ah good to hear from you! I wanted to get in touch with IBM's delegation to understand what your position is on some inclusion issues, which are under discussion at the Ecma level.","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.message":[{"body":"Chris de Almeida: Ah good to hear from you! I wanted to get in touch with IBM's delegation to understand what your position is on some inclusion issues, which are under discussion at the Ecma level.","mimetype":"text/plain"},{"body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@softwarechris:matrix.org\">Chris de Almeida</a>: Ah good to hear from you! I wanted to get in touch with IBM's delegation to understand what your position is on some inclusion issues, which are under discussion at the Ecma level.","mimetype":"text/html"}]},"ts":1656018190604,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$09j-dOMNzD06bjA1ngnUkfvbbvtYcQPxBL7m5_5TFdU"},
{"content":{"body":"But these were resolved pretty satisfactorily in the GA yesterday anyway, no worries","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"But these were resolved pretty satisfactorily in the GA yesterday anyway, no worries"},"ts":1656018213535,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$vO8HkJgiorPiesqUb_zaYWKCW14i0l_rMtRYeap-R_M"},
{"content":{"body":"ok","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"ok"},"ts":1656018280633,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$YpGcry0QluIz8uZdLQegw7UZdIseLES6l5b3vlLpgbM"},
{"content":{"body":"The Ecma GA approved funding for inclusion-oriented communication training for the committee conditional on:\n1) We go back to committee and explain better the problems we see and the purpose of the training. This should include something more detailed about the syllabus, which could help resolve the concerns raised previously. Yulia gave a good explanation of the purpose of this kind of training in the GA, which Waldemar found persuasive: This isn't about tone policing, but rather listening to each other better, e.g., so we don't get into loops and keep repeating ourselves because we don't feel understood. We should validate that Yulia's expectations match the actual communication training vendor selected and try to build on that.\n2) The ExeCom wants to see that the committee as a whole generally wants this training--otherwise, it won't be useful. This isn't something that anyone is asking for 100% single-vote-blocking consensus on, though. To avoid potential ambiguity, Yulia proposed that we could use a 2/3 majority voting procedure, if needed, and the GA accepted this.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>The Ecma GA approved funding for inclusion-oriented communication training for the committee conditional on:</p>\n<ol>\n<li>We go back to committee and explain better the problems we see and the purpose of the training. This should include something more detailed about the syllabus, which could help resolve the concerns raised previously. Yulia gave a good explanation of the purpose of this kind of training in the GA, which Waldemar found persuasive: This isn't about tone policing, but rather listening to each other better, e.g., so we don't get into loops and keep repeating ourselves because we don't feel understood. We should validate that Yulia's expectations match the actual communication training vendor selected and try to build on that.</li>\n<li>The ExeCom wants to see that the committee as a whole generally wants this training--otherwise, it won't be useful. This isn't something that anyone is asking for 100% single-vote-blocking consensus on, though. To avoid potential ambiguity, Yulia proposed that we could use a 2/3 majority voting procedure, if needed, and the GA accepted this.</li>\n</ol>\n","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.message":[{"body":"The Ecma GA approved funding for inclusion-oriented communication training for the committee conditional on:\n1) We go back to committee and explain better the problems we see and the purpose of the training. This should include something more detailed about the syllabus, which could help resolve the concerns raised previously. Yulia gave a good explanation of the purpose of this kind of training in the GA, which Waldemar found persuasive: This isn't about tone policing, but rather listening to each other better, e.g., so we don't get into loops and keep repeating ourselves because we don't feel understood. We should validate that Yulia's expectations match the actual communication training vendor selected and try to build on that.\n2) The ExeCom wants to see that the committee as a whole generally wants this training--otherwise, it won't be useful. This isn't something that anyone is asking for 100% single-vote-blocking consensus on, though. To avoid potential ambiguity, Yulia proposed that we could use a 2/3 majority voting procedure, if needed, and the GA accepted this.","mimetype":"text/plain"},{"body":"<p>The Ecma GA approved funding for inclusion-oriented communication training for the committee conditional on:</p>\n<ol>\n<li>We go back to committee and explain better the problems we see and the purpose of the training. This should include something more detailed about the syllabus, which could help resolve the concerns raised previously. Yulia gave a good explanation of the purpose of this kind of training in the GA, which Waldemar found persuasive: This isn't about tone policing, but rather listening to each other better, e.g., so we don't get into loops and keep repeating ourselves because we don't feel understood. We should validate that Yulia's expectations match the actual communication training vendor selected and try to build on that.</li>\n<li>The ExeCom wants to see that the committee as a whole generally wants this training--otherwise, it won't be useful. This isn't something that anyone is asking for 100% single-vote-blocking consensus on, though. To avoid potential ambiguity, Yulia proposed that we could use a 2/3 majority voting procedure, if needed, and the GA accepted this.</li>\n</ol>\n","mimetype":"text/html"}]},"ts":1656018478466,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$UsqSo3NcX30-UEsNMGaFo3fQyQ3ZUQuu1Q3oAPdyq5Q"},
{"content":{"body":"and this is referring to the NVC training?","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"and this is referring to the NVC training?"},"ts":1656018602975,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$DAgg-IugRNmpMQQ-0fbK76r17YlhcgA-gL0hh7qz0xY"}
]