2023-12-05
[04:00:47.0918] <jkup>
https://code.visualstudio.com/updates/v1_84#_better-handling-of-sourcemap-renames

[05:01:32.0538] <littledan>
Now that this is shipping, it is probably a good time to contact that team and get them to reengage. They came to earlier source map meetings but somehow dropped out 

[05:09:22.0303] <jkup>
Was thinking the same! Iâ€™ll try to find someone 

[05:11:57.0068] <littledan>
(Should be in the past notes)

[05:34:55.0599] <Paul Irish>
Might be Ron Buckton

[05:55:04.0704] <littledan>
There was another person from the VSCode team directly who also attended some meetings 

[05:57:52.0297] <JaseW>
It was most likely Connor Peet, he implements this on VS Codes side and is the lead for the debugger stuff 

