2023-07-04
[01:39:45.0033] <jkup>
Hey folks! I've been working on the TC39 presentation and would love some feedback. Hoping to submit it to the agenda today! https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11Cv2XnTZfd9yBCq1WctKzSwc9Q2ZJkhklOVTbNyUyxU/


2023-07-05
[03:31:07.0044] <Kamil Og√≥rek>
jkup: 
- "Specification lives in Google Doc" - isn't https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec the most recent place we use?
- you can add a link to https://github.com/getsentry/js-source-scopes/ next to "Pasta" one, as it's effectively same thing it tries to handle, but post-hoc
Looks good to me overall!

[04:34:30.0098] <jkup>
Kamil Og√≥rek: Thank you so much! Updating!

[04:51:39.0739] <littledan>
Well, I think the Google doc is still the ‚Äúauthoritative‚Äù one

[04:52:21.0976] <littledan>
I‚Äôve suggested that we be careful to not claim that anything we are making now is ‚Äúofficial‚Äù until we meet certain exit criteria (eg testing)

[04:52:51.0498] <jkup>
I'll leave the google doc in the slides but I did add js-source-scopes!

[05:11:52.0250] <Kamil Og√≥rek>
https://github.com/kamilogorek/sourcemaps-headers as promised, here's headers precedence testing repo. Will update appropriate ticket as well


2023-07-11
[06:40:23.0157] <jkup>
Hey all! I'm at the TC39 meeting right now, and we just got consensus on forming our Task Group! We will now officially be Ecma TC39-TG4

Tweet: https://twitter.com/jkup/status/1678760054424735744

[06:49:23.0441] <Artem Kobzar>
> <@jkup:matrix.org> Hey all! I'm at the TC39 meeting right now, and we just got consensus on forming our Task Group! We will now officially be Ecma TC39-TG4
> 
> Tweet: https://twitter.com/jkup/status/1678760054424735744

Good luck üëç 

[07:21:10.0238] <Chris de Almeida>
not urgent but at some point we should:
- rename this room -- `TC39-TG4 Source Maps`
- set the room icon (tc39 logo)
- add to tc39 space

[07:21:20.0938] <Chris de Almeida>
 * not urgent but at some point we should:

- rename this room -- `TC39-TG4: Source Maps`
- set the room icon (tc39 logo)
- add to tc39 space


2023-07-12
[20:06:48.0167] <justingrant>
Glad to see that we're official now!  Thanks for making it happen. 

[05:18:27.0054] <Chris de Almeida>
https://www.ecma-international.org/news/ecma-tc39-ecmascript-has-formed-a-new-task-group-tg3-dedicated-to-the-security-of-the-ecmascript-javascript-language/

do we want/need to work with Ecma on drafting something like this for TG4?  littledan jkup 

[05:18:50.0748] <Chris de Almeida>
forwarded here as it's already buried in delegates channel

[06:07:12.0922] <jkup>
Chris de Almeida:
1. I don't have admin permissions for this room, so I think littledan would have to do the room changes!
2. I would love to draft something like that!
3. Do you have TC39 calendar admin permissions? We seem to have lost the calendar entries for our TG4 calls and I would love to add them back.

[06:08:17.0392] <Chris de Almeida>
1. yes, needs to be an admin
2. next step is to find out how that manifested -- I don't know if that was just an Ecma thing or was spearheaded by TG3 folks at the time, etc.  perhaps Dan can speak with Samina on that for guidance
3. yep, no problem

[06:10:09.0257] <Chris de Almeida>
- `source map naming track` on the last Thursday of every month
- `Source map monthly call` on the second Wednesday of every month

[06:10:12.0491] <Chris de Almeida>
accurate?

[06:11:04.0470] <Chris de Almeida>
both 11 am - 12 central time

[06:12:19.0708] <jkup>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> - `source map naming track` on the last Thursday of every month
> - `Source map monthly call` on the second Wednesday of every month

Yes those are correct! I still have the old events with the old attendees. Should I wait for you to create the new ones and add the attendees manually or is there a way I can send you the old events?

[06:21:35.0310] <Chris de Almeida>
they don't exist on the tc39 calendar, so is the organizer should cancel those meetings


[06:22:00.0622] <Chris de Almeida>
I will create the new meetings, I just need the email addresses of folks for the invite list

[06:22:17.0842] <littledan>
yeah the only place to get it is the past meetings, which should've generated emails for you

[06:22:23.0715] <littledan>
did they?

[06:23:05.0688] <Chris de Almeida>
you mean the invite list?  I have some version of the list, but any updates to invitees after initial meeting creation notoriously usually does not update 

[06:23:29.0226] <littledan>
yeah...

[06:23:37.0637] <littledan>
we can start with that though

[06:23:40.0258] <jkup>
I can private message you with the list of the invitees from the last events?

[06:23:48.0175] <Chris de Almeida>
I have 41 people on monthly call

[06:23:59.0743] <Chris de Almeida>
39 people on naming call

[06:24:40.0202] <jkup>
i have 40 and 40 ü§î

[06:27:11.0438] <littledan>
we decided to invite everyone to both calls

[06:27:20.0879] <littledan>
so let's just use your longer list :)

[06:53:31.0299] <littledan>
I'm transferring the three source map repos to tc39. But I'm leaving the GitHub page in place, which we can still reference going forward, at http://source-map.github.io

[06:54:22.0888] <littledan>
once we are getting close to the first version that we're excited to share with the world, we can do so at that URL. But otherwise, we're going to operate within the TC39 org, which comes with some backups hosted by Ecma

[06:57:04.0531] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> once we are getting close to the first version that we're excited to share with the world, we can do so at that URL. But otherwise, we're going to operate within the TC39 org, which comes with some backups hosted by Ecma

what do they backup?

[06:58:02.0890] <littledan>
in theory a crawl of all the repos in the tc39 org, periodically, in Ecma servers

[06:58:14.0243] <littledan>
I'm not sure whether this has been technically working for the past several years, though...

[07:08:32.0348] <Chris de Almeida>
ok, we should follow up on this.. we were discussing BCDR not so long ago and we didn't have any answers for this

[07:08:52.0293] <Chris de Almeida>
üò≥

[07:10:24.0127] <jkup>
One last calendar question! So, you'll make the new events with the attendees and then I'll delete the old events, is that right? And going forward, will we be able to add people to the events ourselves or just point them to the public calendar?

[07:52:25.0156] <Chris de Almeida>
 - you'll make the new events with the attendees and then I'll delete the old events
yes

- will we be able to add people to the events ourselves
no, any updates will require someone with permissions to update the tc39 calendar

 - or just point them to the public calendar?
as of right now, this is all going on the private calendar.  if you want it to appear on the public calendar, please see this issue to proceed: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/498


2023-07-18
[05:18:08.0242] <Jan Olaf Martin>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> I'm transferring the three source map repos to tc39. But I'm leaving the GitHub page in place, which we can still reference going forward, at http://source-map.github.io

Looks like the move had an impact on PR review powers. Do we want to add back people with write access or is there a process for how reviews of things like https://github.com/tc39/source-map-spec/pull/13 should work now?

[05:37:32.0037] <littledan>
oh, oops. Can we start this from scratch: who should have powers to land things?

[05:37:56.0166] <littledan>
the previous arrangement was actually kinda weird--it was all Googlers, and some of them were completely inactive

[05:38:08.0458] <littledan>
I'm not sure if I want to carry that over exactly

[05:38:39.0076] <littledan>
One possibility: people who want to be able to land things should sign up to be a co-editor or co-convenor.

[05:40:00.0011] <littledan>
(or, we could have some "assistant editor" role, to capture just landing stuff and not being the editor?? but I'd like to get more co-editors, really)

[05:40:36.0749] <jkup>
I'm happy with whatever you think is best! It feels like co-editors would be nice to make sure one or two people don't become bottlenecks for merging things / get overwhelmed. 

[05:41:07.0670] <littledan>
yeah co-editors is my preferred outcome

[05:41:22.0670] <Jan Olaf Martin>
O

[05:42:19.0385] <Jan Olaf Martin>
 * I'd be happy to help with PR reviews and/or house keeping on the repo. If that means becoming a co-editor or co-conveyor, happy to be one.

[05:43:07.0839] <Jan Olaf Martin>
(unless it means having to do timely reviews on _everything_ going forward. in which case I don't think I could commit to it right now)

[05:50:49.0087] <Jan Olaf Martin>
FWIW, "only the editors of the spec have push access" seems perfectly reasonable. In which case I think everything is already working as intended?

[06:24:44.0677] <littledan>
> <@jkrems:matrix.org> (unless it means having to do timely reviews on _everything_ going forward. in which case I don't think I could commit to it right now)

no, I don't think it should mean this

[06:25:40.0535] <littledan>
at the risk of being excessively formal, what if we run "adding Jan as a co-editor" by the monthly call next time?

[07:48:23.0551] <littledan>
> <@jkrems:matrix.org> FWIW, "only the editors of the spec have push access" seems perfectly reasonable. In which case I think everything is already working as intended?

well, that's not currently the policy... I have push access, for example. This is why I was suggesting "editors and conveners" but I would also be happy to switch to just "editors" if there's enough bandwidth from that group

[11:08:20.0113] <Jan Olaf Martin>
Ah, sorry. Blindly assumed that you were a (co-)editor. :) In that case it's likely up to the current editors to say more, both from a "knowing what goes in" and from a "bandwidth" perspective. I assume that there'll be a gray area between "fix a broken a link", "fix a typo", and "make a noteworthy change".

[12:21:42.0811] <littledan>
yeah, anyway, I invited you to be acting as an editor here, we can have a (very short) meta-discussion on all this at the next monthly meeting


2023-07-21
[07:45:06.0005] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/main/2023/09.md?plain=1#L80

[07:47:04.0032] <Chris de Almeida>
Task Groups report to the TC at each meeting.  There is a placeholder agenda item there for TG4.  The convenors are naturally a good choice for who is presenting, but it's not a requirement.  For example, for TG3, we have a separate 'speaker' role for this.  And the `5m` timebox is also just a placeholder.


2023-07-27
[08:39:54.0161] <littledan>
See you all in 20 minutes for the Source Maps "naming track" call. DM me if you need call-in details, but you can find everything on the TC39 calendar.

