2023-04-11
[06:07:15.0255] <Romulo Cintra>
üëã

[06:33:54.0809] <Armin Ronacher>
\o

[06:43:38.0911] <littledan>
Hello!

[06:43:57.0964] <littledan>
Armin Ronacher: Could you DM me Holger's email address so we can get him added to the invites?

[06:44:16.0001] <littledan>
err maybe wrong company?

[06:44:27.0760] <Armin Ronacher>
yeah wrong company. I'm from Sentry :)

[06:44:44.0035] <littledan>
I knew that; I guess Holger was from replay.io?

[06:44:48.0515] <Armin Ronacher>
I would like to make _some_ progress here: https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/pull/24 <- let me know how i can do that

[06:45:29.0523] <Armin Ronacher>
littledan: yes, replay.io

[06:45:39.0159] <Armin Ronacher>
holger@replay.io was on the cal invite

[06:45:39.0772] <littledan>
> <@mitsuhiko:matrix.org> I would like to make _some_ progress here: https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/pull/24 <- let me know how i can do that

Sorry I haven't reviewed in technical detail yet, but... yeah, I need to find out who has admin rights here. Will ask around. If needed, we can shift to a new repo

[06:45:57.0973] <Armin Ronacher>
littledan: i guess fitzgen still has access? i can reach out if that's the case

[06:46:38.0316] <littledan>
> <@mitsuhiko:matrix.org> littledan: i guess fitzgen still has access? i can reach out if that's the case

Yeah if you're in touch that'd be great; maybe he could add us as co-owners?

[06:48:27.0255] <Armin Ronacher>
I reached out to him

[07:08:17.0320] <littledan>
Paul Irish: Looks like you're in the GitHub.com/source-map org; do you have any privileges?

[07:43:12.0519] <Paul Irish>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> Paul Irish: Looks like you're in the GitHub.com/source-map org; do you have any privileges?

Yup I'm an admin for the org

[07:43:56.0445] <Paul Irish>
I'll add you as admin

[08:53:55.0098] <Armin Ronacher>
littledan: i think i annotated all the minor edits i made to the doc

[08:54:09.0522] <Armin Ronacher>
(used `<ins>` and `<mark>`)

[08:54:44.0019] <Armin Ronacher>
The one I did not mark is this sentence I removed: "An HTTP header would address this, but is not yet agreed upon" <- unless i miss something this talks about the `sourcemap` header that actually was documented?

[08:54:55.0741] <Armin Ronacher>
happy to bring this back if i am misinterpreting this sentence

[12:16:25.0695] <littledan>
Armin Ronacher: How do you feel about developing in  https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec ? I'm happy to land your PR as-is there.

[12:17:41.0777] <littledan>
Also, I wanted to float: Would people be interested in doing a brief presentation to TC39 about this in May, outlining the existence of this effort, its rough goals, encouraging participation, and floating the idea that we might standardize it at TC39 if the committee is interested?

[12:17:56.0637] <littledan>
(this could be from an "invited expert" with enough lead time)

[13:11:06.0665] <Jan Olaf Martin>
doing it in source-map-spec would also preserve (some of the) edit history. I ran a script that converted the google doc history into git commits there

[13:14:46.0612] <littledan>
> <@jkrems:matrix.org> doing it in source-map-spec would also preserve (some of the) edit history. I ran a script that converted the google doc history into git commits there

Oh you are jkrems?

[13:17:04.0396] <Jan Olaf Martin>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> Oh you are jkrems?

Yep, last name changed last year to Martin, used to be (J)Krems. :)

[13:17:16.0690] <littledan>
Ah congratulations maybe 


2023-04-12
[01:38:37.0574] <Armin Ronacher>
littledan: let me re-open this against the other repo then

[07:53:16.0753] <littledan>
> <@mitsuhiko:matrix.org> littledan: let me re-open this against the other repo then

Great, landed! Now we just need some simple CI to render this onto https://github.com/source-map/source-map.github.io

[07:55:18.0584] <Armin Ronacher>
if you give me permissions i configure this

[07:58:12.0826] <Jan Olaf Martin>
any objections to me marking this as a copy of the `.md` file after the fact?

[07:58:38.0354] <Jan Olaf Martin>
 * any objections to me marking this as a copy of the `.md` file after the fact? (for history / diff tracking purposes)

[08:00:41.0692] <Armin Ronacher>
Jan Olaf Martin: i used the google doc that was linked as reference, not the md file. so the diff would be probably very significant

[08:00:50.0030] <Armin Ronacher>
not sure if git would even pick it up as a copy

[08:00:58.0552] <Jan Olaf Martin>
the `.md` is generated from the google doc, including its edit history

[08:02:15.0433] <Jan Olaf Martin>
so the diff _should_ be empty. which is why I'd like to document the diff if there is any :)

[08:03:28.0777] <Armin Ronacher>
The last edit of the .md is from 2019, the v3 spec has edits from 2022

[08:04:15.0896] <Jan Olaf Martin>
the v3 spec edits are likely from me when I worked with John on extracting the history. the git commit dates are back-dated to when those edits happened in the google doc

[08:05:05.0745] <Jan Olaf Martin>
anyway, I'll put up a CL first and will ask before I force-push to update the history. I only wanted to make sure nobody has a good reason _not_ to do it

[08:05:57.0244] <Armin Ronacher>
https://gist.github.com/mitsuhiko/3eeaf45867137a87c94a85faa7d3a62f

[08:06:00.0095] <Armin Ronacher>
this is what the diff looks like

[08:07:14.0489] <Armin Ronacher>
no reason not to. if you want i can also redo this by taking the converted .md first, and then reformatting this to bikeshed

[08:13:35.0986] <Jan Olaf Martin>
don't want to cause work on your end, happy to do it myself. I'd just like to make sure that formatting, editorial, and content changes are a bit separate to be able to track what changed when. and that's to a large degree because of an obsession of mine with web history which I wouldn't want to slow down your work here!

[08:15:14.0094] <Jan Olaf Martin>
(e.g. I would likely port the line break changes of existing spec text and the header style back to the original commits since they are just different ways to express the gdoc-to-markdown mapping)

[08:16:19.0724] <Armin Ronacher>
Yeah go nuts :) Right now I just want to get the build stuff set up on GHA. Will try to do tonight if someone can give me access (need to make a PAT to push and CI run permissions to test)

[08:18:20.0026] <Jan Olaf Martin>
which repo/repos do you need access to? gave you write access to https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec

[08:19:08.0975] <Armin Ronacher>
perfect. i think that's all i need. I will use a PAT of myself first, maybe we can rotate this out later

[08:19:37.0168] <Jan Olaf Martin>
thanks for working on this!

[08:43:59.0214] <littledan>
Let's refrain from landing things without review, though

[08:44:32.0197] <littledan>
Does anyone have concerns about hosting this draft spec on source-maps.github.io?

[08:44:40.0416] <littledan>
that would be something else to give permissions on

[08:47:26.0803] <Jan Olaf Martin>
I think I would host the spec under source-maps.github.io/source-map-spec which should just work‚Ñ¢ without doing cross-repo syncs

[08:47:48.0293] <littledan>
oh sure that sounds good

[09:10:24.0657] <Armin Ronacher>
I think this might work, but only push to master will clarify: https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec/pull/2

[10:05:58.0373] <Armin Ronacher>
littledan: seemed to work but i think gh-pages has to be activated in the settings

[10:26:56.0915] <Jan Olaf Martin>
enabled it

[10:27:28.0129] <Jan Olaf Martin>
https://source-map.github.io/source-map-spec/ üéâ

[10:46:00.0098] <Jan Olaf Martin>
nit: the generated code has a note about licensing of the content that effectively re-licenses the text afaict. might be worth (pro forma) to ping the past editors and make them aware

[11:47:27.0854] <Armin Ronacher>
yeah, i need to fix this. That is the auto generated stuff that bikeshed puts into. I will open an issue

[12:48:40.0320] <littledan>
Can you make this show up not as a living spec, but rather as a draft that's not a standard?

[12:48:48.0484] <littledan>
(sorry, I should've caught this in code review earlier)

[12:48:54.0891] <littledan>
we can call this a living standard once it's all doen

[12:48:59.0154] <littledan>
 * we can call this a living standard once it's all done

[12:52:40.0258] <Armin Ronacher>
sure thing

[12:54:40.0190] <Armin Ronacher>
littledan: since this is a tc39 thing probably, should i pick STAGE0?

[12:55:15.0089] <Armin Ronacher>
not sure how to make it a draft tbh. not super familiar with bikeshed

[12:55:43.0930] <littledan>
there's a mode where it puts a huge disclaimer all over everything, just a minute, I'll figure it out

[12:56:43.0350] <Armin Ronacher>
i wanted to pick ED but apparently you need to pick W3C as group for that

[12:57:21.0379] <Armin Ronacher>
apparently once you pick tc39 as group, you only have stage0 to 5 and LS

[12:57:40.0735] <Armin Ronacher>
or `DREAM`?

[13:07:45.0627] <littledan>
sure stage0 works for now

[13:08:14.0368] <littledan>
There should really be some introductory text that explains the context and purpose of this document

[13:21:31.0566] <Armin Ronacher>
let me add an introduction

[13:38:39.0504] <Armin Ronacher>
https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec/pull/4

[15:15:37.0200] <Armin Ronacher>
What if we incorporate the changes from the doc into the v3 markdown, and then explicitly declare the google doc not canon any more?


2023-04-13
[18:57:38.0354] <Jan Olaf Martin>
the doc _should_ generally no longer be canon (even though we stopped short of explicitly adding a note to the doc). which is why I was surprised about potential changes after the port. but I would want to check in with John before putting anything into the public. checking the emails with Victor, he did offer to create a PR to keep the markdown in sync but I guess that never happened

[18:57:55.0091] <Jan Olaf Martin>
(that should be the only addition afaict, `x_google_ignoreList`)

[19:50:38.0581] <littledan>
The goal of this project is to make a new canon spec. Even if the current draft is better than what there is before, I would hesitate to declare anything we have right now to be already the replacement for v3

[19:53:00.0102] <littledan>
Maybe we should all think about what our ‚Äúexit criteria‚Äù are for the spec hardening workstream. For example, I would suggest the criteria include 1) we have an answer to the issues raised about what things mean 2) we believe that the spec corresponds to implementations as best as possible (modulo bugs) 3) we have a conformance test suite

[19:53:43.0483] <littledan>
Until then, great to construct a draft but it feels premature to claim that it‚Äôs authoritative 

[19:54:15.0094] <littledan>
* A goal of this project is to make a new canon spec. Even if the current draft is better than what there is before, I would hesitate to declare anything we have right now to be already the replacement for v3

[19:54:40.0843] <littledan>
Unfortunately there is no good spec now and there won‚Äôt be for a little bit

[20:01:19.0433] <littledan>
Once we get in decent shape, I am totally in favor of maintaining things as a living standard or similar.

[03:49:18.0246] <bomsy>
I'm begining to look into the conformance tests, if there any suggestions, ideas or comments around this it'll be great to get them here https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15

[04:09:43.0037] <bomsy>
* I'll begin to look into the conformance tests, if there any suggestions, ideas or comments around this it'll be great to get them here https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15

[05:04:37.0484] <littledan>
> <@bomsy:mozilla.org> I'll begin to look into the conformance tests, if there any suggestions, ideas or comments around this it'll be great to get them here https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15

I‚Äôm very happy to hear that!


2023-04-26
[11:07:38.0796] <littledan>
I'm looking forward to seeing you at the next TC39 tools call on May 3rd, where we will again focus on source maps.

A draft agenda (additions welcome!):

- Dan: Review goals ‚Äì are we in agreement with these? https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/22
- Workstream ‚Äì Spec correctness
* Armin: Bikeshed conversion of v3 https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec/pull/1 https://source-map.github.io/source-map-spec/
* Hubert: Conformance testing https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15
burndown of issues https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Workstream%3A+Correctness%22
- Workstream ‚Äì Naming
    * Holger: Variable naming proposal https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/37
    * Rob Paveza: Representation of scopes https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/12
    * Lilit: Pasta source maps for function names https://github.com/bloomberg/pasta-sourcemaps/blob/master/spec.md
    * Chrome, Sentry, replay.io: Share experience with re-parsing source code to find names‚Äìpitfalls, room for improvement, etc.
- Workstream ‚Äì Correlating source maps, compiled scripts and source scripts
    * Armin: Debug ID proposal https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/blob/main/proposals/debug-id.md
    * Rob: SHA hashes accessible from JS https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/pull/20#issuecomment-1497814862
- Prioritization of workstreams?
    * Proposal from Dan: Work on them all at once, but when we have too much on a call agenda, discuss ‚Äúcorrectness‚Äù first.
    * Rationale: This will give us a more solid basis to build features on top of
- Dan: Bring to TC39 and operate as TG4? Co-presenters? https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/7#issuecomment-1505280901

[11:08:10.0652] <littledan>
If this isn't already on your calendar, you can request an invite in [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfnYeL6UMPe4ZKcfEP8slKubyv1KYlKE8efaLJznMlx1qt9kw/viewform) (expressing interest in "tools"). That invite will point to the Google Meet call and notes doc.

[11:08:35.0639] <littledan>
This call will be May 3rd at 12:00 America/New_York.

[11:58:08.0650] <littledan>
 * I'm looking forward to seeing you at the next TC39 tools call on May 3rd, where we will again focus on source maps.

A draft agenda (additions welcome!):

- Dan: Review goals ‚Äì are we in agreement with these? https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/22
- Workstream ‚Äì Spec correctness
    - Armin: Bikeshed conversion of v3 https://github.com/source-map/source-map-spec/pull/1 https://source-map.github.io/source-map-spec/
    - Hubert: Conformance testing https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/15
    - burndown of issues https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Workstream%3A+Correctness%22
- Workstream ‚Äì Naming

    - Holger: Variable naming proposal https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/37
    - Rob Paveza: Representation of scopes https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/12
    - Lilit: Pasta source maps for function names https://github.com/bloomberg/pasta-sourcemaps/blob/master/spec.md
    - Chrome, Sentry, replay.io: Share experience with re-parsing source code to find names‚Äìpitfalls, room for improvement, etc.
- Workstream ‚Äì Correlating source maps, compiled scripts and source scripts

    - Armin: Debug ID proposal https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/blob/main/proposals/debug-id.md
    - Rob: SHA hashes accessible from JS https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/pull/20#issuecomment-1497814862
- Prioritization of workstreams?

    - Proposal from Dan: Work on them all at once, but when we have too much on a call agenda, discuss ‚Äúcorrectness‚Äù first.
    - Rationale: This will give us a more solid basis to build features on top of
- Dan: Bring to TC39 and operate as TG4? Co-presenters? https://github.com/source-map/source-map-rfc/issues/7#issuecomment-1505280901

