2024-04-04
[09:38:29.0466] <jkup>
Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:

- Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)
- Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)
- Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)
- RFC on `sourceMappingURL` comment?
- Anything else?

[09:38:53.0786] <jkup>
 * Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:

- Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)
- Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)
- Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)
- RFC on `sourceMappingURL` comment?
- Confirmed hackathon dates?
- Anything else?


2024-04-05
[02:27:30.0776] <Nic>
Maybe mentioned that we merged the repos

[16:02:40.0034] <Chris de Almeida>
hey folks -- who will be handing the TG4 report at plenary and how much time do you need?


2024-04-08
[21:17:13.0066] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> hey folks -- who will be handing the TG4 report at plenary and how much time do you need?

penciling in jkup for 5m

[02:32:56.0502] <jkup>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> penciling in jkup for 5m

Sorry didn't see this! 5m for me is great

[04:38:59.0766] <jkup>
Slides I'm planning on presenting (open for feedback!)

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1t2Fu12Dc8kfe27rNDGVAfCXDXkU5cKC32qryJ_aiDug/edit?usp=sharing

[04:40:02.0399] <littledan>
s/April update/April 2024 update/ [it is always a mess to figure out what's going on when looking back at these slides.2 years later without dates]

[04:40:42.0288] <littledan>
Alex Russell likes to give this reminder periodically https://www.linkedin.com/posts/alexrussell_names-and-dates-on-docs-every-time-dont-activity-7161527638501654528-d4k7/

[04:41:10.0936] <jkup>
hahah great call!

[05:48:59.0640] <littledan>
these slides look great and IMO ready to share publicly on the agenda. Some minor feedback:
- Let's sort tests earlier, and repo merging later (focus on the exciting/meaningful parts)
- Maybe we should avoid the term "post-hoc debuggers" (which I might have introduced) because it doesn't seem meaningful; except I don't really know the right name...
- If you want to go all-out [not necessary for today, but could be a good slide for us to have on hand for later presentations], then you could illustrate the scopes slide with a simple example of a source code transform (e.g., changing a local variable name or nesting functions of the same name) and note "source maps can't model this; this proposal does" (and this would replace some of the bullets explaining the goals--might be enough to give one concrete motivating example). Similarly for tests, we could give one example small test in code.

[05:57:38.0280] <jkup>
Love this, also always struggle with "post-hoc debuggers" but I'm just not sure what else to use :/

[06:05:06.0516] <jkup>
- Error monitoring tools?
- Performance monitoring tools?
- Observability tools?
- Error trackers?

[06:58:05.0834] <littledan>
Error monitoring tools sounds the best to me so far

[06:59:51.0345] <littledan>
it captures very clearly that Sentry is in, replay.io is out

