2024-02-02
[14:02:38.0019] <Chris de Almeida>
hey folks -- who will be handing the TG4 report at plenary and how much time do you need?

[14:03:26.0136] <jkup>
> <@softwarechris:matrix.org> hey folks -- who will be handing the TG4 report at plenary and how much time do you need?

I‚Äôll do it and should be able to finish in 5 mins! I meant to add slides this week but have been sick!

[14:04:12.0279] <Chris de Almeida>
sounds good, thank you!


2024-02-06
[07:50:06.0880] <jkup>
Hey folks! Sorry for coming in so late on this but here are the slides I'm planning to use to present our status updates at TC39 plenary today, we still have time to make any changes or corrections! https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1W6p3pI1f-tqibcGZc2Fcj3JsEejW5fp749e-mFetK80/edit?usp=sharing

[08:09:54.0020] <abelkius>
Looks good! 

[08:10:15.0403] <abelkius>
November 2023 is on 2 slides, should one of them be December 2023?

[08:11:22.0503] <abelkius>
Or actually all of that happened in November?

[08:12:22.0810] <jkup>
The date title idea kind of fell apart üòÇ I‚Äôll rework it!

[08:26:26.0674] <Jan Olaf Martin>
Thanks for putting this together!


2024-02-12
[06:33:52.0134] <jkup>
Hey folks! We're trying to plan our next in-person gettogether and hackathon. I was thinking Munich hosted in the Google office would be good considering how many of our members live in that area. We also thought picking a date that's far enough from today that we'll have some great progress to share but not too far from the TC39 September plenary so we can make sure we're on a good track for that presentation. I'm going to throw out a few dates to vote on and if the location or the dates are problematic, please let me know and we'll try to work it out!



[06:34:46.0643] <jkup>
 * Hey folks! We're trying to plan our next in-person get together and hackathon. We were thinking Munich again, hosted in the Google office considering how many of our members live in that area. We also thought picking a date that's far enough from today that we'll have some great progress to share but not too far from the TC39 September plenary so we can make sure we're on a good track for that presentation. I'm going to throw out a few dates to vote on and if the location or the dates are problematic, please let me know and we'll try to work it out!



[06:36:47.0222] <jkup>
What if we do a classic emoji poll :)
Vote for all you would attend!

üöó for May 30-31
‚úàÔ∏è for May 23-24
‚õµÔ∏è for May 20-21


2024-02-14
[09:02:21.0068] <littledan>
Sorry I will have to miss the call today

[09:02:47.0047] <Artem Kobzar>
Seems like the link is still invalid üòî

[09:02:51.0438] <abelkius>
Is the link broken?

[09:02:56.0395] <abelkius>
oh yeah, for me too

[09:03:22.0048] <jkup>
I'm also out of office today

[09:04:01.0836] <abelkius>
should we move the meeting then?

[09:07:03.0334] <Simon Z√ºnd>
I can provide a meets link if anyone has something they wanna chat about?

[09:08:54.0700] <Artem Kobzar>
From my side, I want to discuss the behavior we want to describe for SourceMap consumers when using a wrong version number.

[09:09:33.0102] <Artem Kobzar>
But we could discuss it here asynchronously.

[09:10:57.0567] <littledan>
Do people want something scheduled for this time next week? Vote with emoji reacts

[09:11:52.0963] <littledan>
(Or also feel free to make a new link and hold the call now!)


2024-02-15
[09:31:44.0275] <jkup>
I just made 2 new multi-year recurring Zoom meetings for our calls and Jordan Harband helped me update them on the TC39 calendar. Hopefully no more room problems!


2024-02-16
[08:31:57.0356] <littledan>
> <@jkup:matrix.org> What if we do a classic emoji poll :)
> Vote for all you would attend!
> 
> üöó for May 30-31
> ‚úàÔ∏è for May 23-24
> ‚õµÔ∏è for May 20-21

Any more votes on this poll? Let's conclude at our next meeting (in a couple weeks)


2024-02-19
[01:08:06.0645] <Simon Z√ºnd>
Artem Kobzar: I uploaded a PR (basically Holgers work) that changes how we encode bindings. IIUC you are already emitting some of this so I'd love your input on the format :)

[01:09:16.0774] <Artem Kobzar>
Great, I will take a look and ASAP make a PoC for Kotlin/Wasm


2024-02-21
[22:50:56.0721] <Simon Z√ºnd>
I'm not allowed to merge PRs in the RFC repo. I thought we fixed this in the last meeting? If this is WAI someone kindly merge https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/pull/66 :)

[01:46:45.0455] <jkup>
Merged and I‚Äôll look into the permissions, sorry!

[05:09:47.0740] <Nic>
> <@littledan:matrix.org> Do people want something scheduled for this time next week? Vote with emoji reacts

Hey, are we doing this today?

[09:03:20.0867] <Nic>
(assuming no)


2024-02-22
[21:33:53.0563] <Simon Z√ºnd>
We can also merge https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/pull/67 :)

[01:52:20.0314] <jkup>
I'm confused. You all have "write" permission on the repo, which looks like you should be able to merge PRs?

[01:52:59.0326] <Nic>
Maybe `main` is protected and only admins can write to it?

[01:54:11.0000] <jkup>
Could it be the "Restrict who can push to matching branches" setting? The wording is a bit confusing to me

[01:56:20.0249] <Nic>
Yes

[01:56:51.0482] <jkup>
Cool I'll remove it, hopefully Simon Z√ºnd everyone will be able to review and merge PRs from here on out!

[02:00:27.0376] <Simon Z√ºnd>
Thanks a lot!

