2024-10-01
[14:30:11.0223] <Devin Rousso>
i can work on getting the tests merged into WebKit

[14:30:25.0530] <Devin Rousso>
are there any features WebKit is missing that i should also implement?

[14:32:51.0727] <Nic>
A scopes implementation would be great eventually, for when we'll need the "two implementations" requirement!

[14:33:08.0306] <Nic>
Or â€” check which tests in the test suite are failing ðŸ˜‰


2024-10-02
[00:50:02.0695] <Simon ZÃ¼nd>
Do we have a table somewhere to track which proposals are at which stage? I can't find anything in the repo. The proposal docs themselves also don't contain which stage they are at.

[01:30:13.0936] <jkup>
We donâ€™t. This is something we havenâ€™t been great about. I need to do some work on my slides today, I can add a table to our readme and maybe label the specific proposal docs as well 

[02:55:02.0967] <Simon ZÃ¼nd>
Just stumbled over a major issue with the scopes proposal: https://github.com/tc39/source-map/issues/133. We need to address this sooner rather than later.

[16:04:05.0332] <jkup>
> <@jkup:matrix.org> We donâ€™t. This is something we havenâ€™t been great about. I need to do some work on my slides today, I can add a table to our readme and maybe label the specific proposal docs as well

added: https://github.com/tc39/source-map/pull/134


2024-10-04
[03:03:42.0241] <jkup>
Hi folks! Sorry been traveling a lot and figured it might be best to ask all of my questions in one place! How are we feeling for plenary?

- I have the slides linked above. Might add a bit more context to them 
- Have we made a decision on https://github.com/tc39/source-map/pull/122 - are we still trying to get it in?
- Have we cut the branch well point to as the 2024 spec?
- Are we still working on generating the official pdf of the spec?


2024-10-06
[08:26:40.0928] <Nic>
> Are we still working on generating the official pdf of the spec?

Aki is going to do it, it will be ready in a few months

> Have we cut the branch well point to as the 2024 spec?

Not yet, but there are no changes on `main` that would not be in 2024. We can point to `main` for now

[08:26:58.0756] <Nic>
jkup: I made some changes to slide 6, please take a look!

[08:27:52.0366] <jkup>
Will do thank you! Maybe wait for Simon to weigh in on the "emit names" PR before cutting the branch?

[08:28:01.0232] <jkup>
I'm gonna add some more stuff in the morning Tokyo time too!

