2025-07-03
[09:02:46.0988] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Meeting time!


2025-07-04
[09:38:26.0874] <guybedford>
nicolo-ribaudo: per the JSON modules spec, should `video/lottie+json` be accepted as a valid JSON module? It seems like in HTML it should. I ran a quick test in Chrome and this didn't seem to be the case.

[09:40:04.0322] <guybedford>
ahh it seems this was a recently fixed Chrome bug

[09:40:06.0305] <guybedford>
nvm

[09:51:57.0292] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yeah it should work because it's a JSON mime type

[11:08:01.0901] <Rob Palmer>
Welcome styfle: 


2025-07-07
[06:31:03.0241] <styfle>
Thanks! I submitted my proposal here. Let me know if you have any feedback! https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/1900


2025-07-08
[05:14:25.0164] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'd recommend putting at least 30 min, maybe 45. I assume a presentation explaining the use cases and why the feature is needed would take 10-15 minutes, but them I'm sure people will have opinions

[05:14:41.0392] <nicolo-ribaudo>
* I'd recommend putting at least 30 min, maybe 45. I assume a presentation explaining the use cases and why the feature is needed would take 10-15 minutes, but them I'm sure people will have opinions and will want to discuss before agreeing on Stage 1

[06:44:49.0029] <dminor>
I really see no harm in asking for more time up front, especially this time around with such a light agenda so far.

[07:25:53.0816] <styfle>
nicolo-ribaudo: Thanks I bumped to 30 min https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/1901

Do you think 45 would be needed? Not sure how these things work. How long was it for json modules?

[07:37:46.0459] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'll find that info for you later! Or, if you want to look it up yourself, probably look at old agendas looking for the proposal


2025-07-11
[17:38:38.0903] <guybedford>
is it supposed to be correct that `m.foo = 5` assignment where `m` is a ModuleNamespace only throws in strict mode, not in sloppy mode?

[17:39:07.0753] <guybedford>
just spent way too long debugging why in Node.js it was allowed when importing a namespace into a CJS module...

[19:30:51.0811] <kriskowal>
I believe that is expected, and has more to do with sloppy mode than it has to do with modules.


2025-07-17
[08:26:20.0960] <Jacob Smith>
I'm swamped at work and won't make it today

[09:02:58.0831] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Meeting time!


2025-07-18
[20:21:03.0176] <kriskowal>
I‚Äôm on the docket now to present ‚ÄúImport Hook‚Äù at plenary and have reserved the option of asking for Stage 1, so would be delighted to see folks at TG3 and Module Harmony and discuss https://github.com/endojs/proposal-import-hook

[20:22:15.0518] <kriskowal>
And, naugtur has taken on the front seat role for ‚Äúnew Global‚Äù, which we expect to be a hard sell and will want to invite everyone to the table https://github.com/endojs/proposal-new-global

[20:23:32.0447] <kriskowal>
What makes this different is that we are not going to ask for a new category of global object, just the ability to replicate existing categories with the option of limiting which observable properties are grafted from the incubating global, without limiting whatever internal slots are needed to function properly in implementations.

[01:06:52.0700] <annevk>
Keeping `WindowProxy` and `Window` objects straight in one's mind is already too complex, as also evidenced by the proposal not even acknowledging or going into the particular difficulties of that. At least `ShadowRealm`s had a pretty plausible story, they were just not compelling enough.

[09:13:06.0874] <kriskowal>
I would like to talk to you specifically about this before we touch on this at plenary. We‚Äôre _probably_ going to pull this out, but wanted to get it in before the deadline just in case.

[09:13:59.0323] <kriskowal>
* I would like to talk to you specifically about this before we touch on this at plenary. We‚Äôre _probably_ going to pull this off the agenda, but wanted to get it in before the deadline just in case.

[09:23:30.0704] <kriskowal>
And also particularly ptomato who among us knows a great deal about those difficulties.

[09:23:52.0656] <annevk>
I can probably squeeze in a short chat somewhere next week. E.g., something early for you on Wednesday?

[09:24:15.0700] <kriskowal>
Let‚Äôs use TG-3. That meets Wednesday early.

[09:24:53.0379] <kriskowal>
I mean, Early Pacific, late Central Europe.

[09:25:05.0153] <kriskowal>
* I mean, early Pacific, late Central Europe.

[09:25:08.0223] <annevk>
I suspect that works, though I'll need the details again.

[09:27:18.0544] <annevk>
Unfortunately 7PM my time is not early enough and ends up overlapping with something else. 6PM would work.

[09:31:30.0484] <kriskowal>
Let me connect you to champion naugtur who is closer to your time zone.

[09:32:37.0739] <kriskowal>
I‚Äôm occasionally available an hour earlier, but non-deterministically, what with the procedure for launching the kids out of the home office.

[10:57:21.0222] <ptomato>
I'm at a conference next week and will have very spotty availability

[10:59:12.0496] <ptomato>
maybe async would be easier?

[10:59:22.0995] <kriskowal>
We‚Äôll catch you when we can. Maybe Module Harmony meeting (every other Thursday) or the subsequent TG-3. We‚Äôll appreciate a chance to catch up whenever you‚Äôre around. Would be neat if when Tab‚Äôs in the room, but not necessarily.

[11:09:50.0747] <kriskowal>
Sure. I‚Äôm interested in your strategic advice, hurdles worth avoiding, &c. My understanding from your related experience with our sister proposal ShadowRealm is that is blocked on motivating cases, so we expect to need rich motivating cases and even a parade of invited experts to testify to them. Some if not all of those are overlapping with trade-offs.

[11:13:41.0202] <ptomato>
I can't guarantee _good_ advice, but I can definitely give advice üòÑ

