2025-07-03
[10:18:30.0970] <styfle>
What does it mean to be a "delegate"?

[10:19:34.0193] <kriskowal>
Welcome styfle. Delegates are employees of an ECMA member organization who the company sends to represent some or all of their interests at plenary meetings.

[10:20:22.0108] <nicolo-ribaudo>
That you are one of the people representing your company in TC39. Most of the committee members are delegates of some company.

Delegates soemtimes voice their own opinions, and often those of their colleagues 

[10:21:14.0264] <styfle>
Where can we find the list of "ECMA member organizations"?

[10:21:52.0679] <styfle>
Is Vercel one of them?

[10:22:22.0136] <styfle>
I just spoke to Tobias who said he hasn't championed a proposal before so now I'm not sure if we have anyone who has.

[10:31:08.0046] <Chris de Almeida>
https://ecma-international.org/members/

[10:31:47.0930] <Chris de Almeida>
Dominic Gannaway is the vercel GA rep

[10:32:54.0756] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work#tc39---how-we-work

[12:45:43.0896] <styfle>
Thanks! And what does "GA rep" mean? I'm not seeing that defined in the documentation.

[12:46:16.0645] <kriskowal>
GA is General Assembly, the body overseeing all of ECMA, not just JavaScript.


2025-07-04
[19:39:14.0756] <styfle>
I created a repo with the proposal. Let me know what you think, thanks! https://github.com/styfle/proposal-import-bytes


2025-07-07
[08:14:20.0037] <zamfofex>
Hey! I want to fill https://tc39.es/agreements/contributor/ and I am unsure whether it is required (or even just recommended/preferred) for me to use my real name, or whether it‚Äôs allowed for me to use an alias or nickname like ‚Äúzamfofex‚Äù instead.

[13:29:08.0632] <ljharb>
i believe it's ideal to use your real name, but that pseudonymity is also fine

[14:06:21.0696] <jmdyck>
ISTR someone who didn't want to 'sign' with their real name, and that became a problem.

[14:07:17.0910] <jmdyck>
but maybe things have changed since then.

[14:15:31.0721] <Chris de Almeida>
IIRC, Ecma needs to know who they are, but we individually do not

[15:49:05.0750] <Aki>
Needs to be legal name (for some definition of legal name, which is actually a really squishy legal concept in many countries). Matching some form of id, I assume. 


2025-07-08
[07:29:59.0248] <styfle>
I don't understand the meeting dates/times here: https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/main/2025/07.md

It says 10:00 to 15:00 which is 5 hours. And then has 4 different days listed. Thats 20 hours of meetings!? Then at the bottom it says total duration is 3h 25m ü§î

[07:37:14.0217] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yes, that's a 20 hours long meeting :)

The "total duration" is how many topics there are  currently on the agenda. It will increase as we get closer to the meeting and people add topics.

Usually a couple day before the meeting the chairs publish the meeting schedule, so you can see when each topic will be (the schedule can change if we go faster than expected, but it's usually a good point of reference).

If you are only available in some time slots, you can add "schedule constraints", saying when you are available. You can find them at the bottom of previous agendas.


2025-07-16
[12:40:16.0469] <kriskowal>
Where‚Äôs the freshest ‚Äúmake me a new proposal repository‚Äù button these days?

[12:40:48.0520] <kriskowal>
Oh, I found https://github.com/tc39/template-for-proposals


2025-07-27
[11:54:10.0201] <styfle>
Where can I see the meeting schedule? Is it the same link here? https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/main/2025/07.md

I added up the minutes before me and its 620 min so that means its likely I won't be presenting until the third day right? (5 hours per day and its over 10 hours of scheduled time before me)

[14:14:55.0004] <Ashley Claymore>
Schedule hasn't been posted yet. Afaik.

[14:15:13.0951] <Ashley Claymore>
It doesn't necessarily go in the agenda order due to schedule constraints 

[14:17:18.0025] <Ashley Claymore>
Oh actually looks like it is available from the reflector issue: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/565

[14:18:20.0084] <Ashley Claymore>
(Don't post link to actual agenda as it has links to notes that need to be kept private)

[14:19:03.0283] <Ashley Claymore>
* Once ready it will be on the reflector issue: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/565

