2025-01-15
[07:53:30.0230] <shu>
hi folks, i have no new topics to discuss for the next structs call, but would like someone there to jog my memory (kriskowal and nicolo-ribaudo preferably) on where exactly we left off and agreed on for the module identity thing for per-realm prototypes

[11:08:26.0633] <Mathieu Hofman>
Kris is out this week. I'm a bit tied up but if necessary I can free myself up tomorrow.

[11:43:09.0074] <shu>
we can also postpone until kris is back

[12:09:51.0404] <Mathieu Hofman>
Postponing by a week would work for us

