2025-08-04
[15:58:15.0171] <sffc>
> Ben (medical leave) changed their display name to Ben
ðŸ‘‹

[15:58:20.0665] <sffc>
* > Ben (medical leave) changed their display name to Ben

ðŸ‘‹


2025-08-07
[00:47:02.0518] <nicolo-ribaudo>
A colleague of ours (Brian Kardell) might be interested in joining our call today to talk about the possible amount web integration 

[08:59:26.0687] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'll be a few minutes late

[09:03:15.0287] <eemeli>
It's just me so far.

[09:56:01.0475] <sffc>
Two main takeaways: 

1. *If* we support infinity, we probably also want to support NaN and -0, because then we are basically redefining Amount to be a reified IntlMV instead of MV
2. *If* we have spec mandated limits, they should be at least as much as the IntlMV limits, and could be the same 
3. I will make a PR implementing proposed IntlMV limits, which we can review to see if we want to see them applied to Amount

[09:56:16.0604] <sffc>
* Two main takeaways and one AI:

1. *If* we support infinity, we probably also want to support NaN and -0, because then we are basically redefining Amount to be a reified IntlMV instead of MV
2. *If* we have spec mandated limits, they should be at least as much as the IntlMV limits, and could be the same 
3. I will make a PR implementing proposed IntlMV limits, which we can review to see if we want to see them applied to Amount


2025-08-20
[17:39:20.0892] <sffc>
We have stuff on the TG3 agenda tomorrow. 

Do we have an agenda for Thursday?

[15:47:49.0070] <eemeli>
I'm on vacation, and would prefer to skip tomorrow's call.


2025-08-21
[18:01:09.0904] <sffc>
ok. Here's my mental model of the state of things:

- We have a good framework from last time about how we would support Infinity, -0, NaN. We don't have full champion alignment yet, and we need to figure out next steps on how to get that alignment in advance of the next TG1 meeting.
- We should ask for a W3C review of the proposal soon.
- The bounds limit issue is being addressed separately and was subject of today's TG3 call. I plan to make a standalone timebox for that issue at the next TG1 meeting.
- We should make sure that the README and spec text are up-to-date with the latest agreements from TG1 and the champions meeting, such as currency not (?) being special cased, and rounding on the way in.
- Eemeli raised in last week's TG2 meeting that there were outstanding issues to discuss. Maybe we can get a headstart in the numerics champions call.

I'm fine skipping tomorrow's meeting, but next time (on Sep 4) we should meet and discuss those outstanding issues and what if anything we need to do in order to prepare for the rapidly approaching September TG1 meeting.

