2025-11-03
[09:36:50.0055] <sffc>
Who from this channel is interested in a numerics breakout on Monday? Please react, and we'll figure out a time among those people

[09:37:18.0949] <sffc>
* Who from this channel is interested in a numerics breakout on Monday before TC39, possibly at Google Tokyo? Please react, and we'll figure out a time among those people

[09:43:14.0978] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'm interested but unfortunately won't know until this weekend if I'm coming or not

[10:36:30.0707] <sffc>
I want to know people who are interested even if remote so we could find an appropriate time of day. Sounds like Jesse, Nicolo, and you'd both be in Europe?

[15:21:20.0808] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Yes :)


2025-11-04
[16:07:39.0635] <sffc>
Ok, so then I'd like to propose 16:45-19:00 JST, followed by dinner at Google for people attending in person

[16:28:55.0502] <sffc>
* Ok, so then I'd like to propose 17:00-19:00 JST at Google. I sent an invitation.

[16:29:07.0113] <sffc>
* Ok, so then I'd like to propose 17:00-19:00 JST at Google. I sent an invitation (edited a few times).

[16:30:24.0162] <sffc>
* Ok, so then I'd like to propose 17:00-19:00 JST at Google. I sent an invitation (edited a few times). Please verify if this time works. If it does, we can post about it in the Reflector thread, if you think it would be productive to do so.

[00:54:13.0086] <Jesse>
happy to participate in a hybrid call, thanks for organizing


2025-11-05
[18:13:53.0882] <sffc>
I have +1s from Jesse (remote) and Nicolo (maybe remote), and Ben also accepted the invite. Anyone else? Maybe eemeli ljharb Richard Gibson ?

[19:56:50.0072] <ljharb>
5pm Monday night? I should be available

[11:33:29.0885] <Richard Gibson>
I am uncertain but hopeful

[14:21:18.0705] <Chris de Almeida>
words to live by, surely!


2025-11-07
[21:56:03.0977] <eemeli>
sffc: Monday afternoon meetup sounds good.

[10:15:57.0396] <sffc>
How are people feeling about putting Amount up again for Stage 2? Are we waiting on anything in particular?

(If we're waiting on the Google position, I'm still working on it, but I don't expect it to be significantly different from the one in September: the type needs to be designed to encourage string formatting and discourage round-trip conversion to numbers)

[12:07:16.0121] <sffc>
I just put together a proposal for the Intl unit protocol, since multiple delegates have observed that it is separable from Amount, and since it is a prerequisite for Amount due to polyfills and proxies, and since it might be easier to get consensus to advance. Would you like to add this to the agenda?

https://github.com/sffc/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/

[12:09:01.0540] <sffc>
* I just put together a proposal for the Intl unit protocol, since multiple delegates have observed that it is separable from Amount, and since it is a prerequisite for Amount due to polyfills and proxies, and since it might be easier to get consensus to advance. Do you think I should add this to the agenda?

https://github.com/sffc/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/

[12:28:25.0690] <Chris de Almeida>
the only blocker I was aware of is unblocked

[13:35:10.0716] <sffc>
ok, I lean toward adding it to the agenda, and we can pull it if we feel we need to

[13:36:32.0601] <sffc>
Give it a 30m or 45m timebox, because I don't want to get bogged down in more nitpicking. Any nitpicking should be resolved ahead of time, and the Monday afternoon event should help with that some.

[14:34:35.0727] <Ben Allen>
I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes, but I won't have time to add slides until after the deadline

[14:35:41.0968] <Ben Allen>
* I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes

[14:58:39.0254] <Ben Allen>
* I've put in a PR to add it to the agenda for 30 minutes.

[15:45:58.0589] <eemeli>
I feel like pushing for Stage 2 for Amount and separately proposing a new Intl unit protocol are rushing things, once again. My understanding of where we left things on the 30 Oct Numerics call was to _not_ propose an Amount item for the plenary, and instead discuss it further separately, as we won't have time to account for input coming from next week's W3C breakout session on the HTML Amount proposal.

I also don't think that the Amount spec text is necessarily in the shape that it should be, as it still contains at least this in ToIntlMathematicalValue():
> If value has the [[Value]] and [[FractionDigits]] internal slots, let primValue be RenderAmountValueWithFractionDigits(value.[[Value]], value.[[FractionDigits]])

I thought we didn't want to rely on the internal slots? There are probably other places in the spec that also need to be checked that they're in line with what we actually want. Also, not having slides ready in time for the cutoff is a bad look.

Regarding the Intl unit protocol proposal, that doesn't have TG2 approval yet, right?

[15:47:45.0142] <sffc>
Does this mean that the Amount spec text and README are not up-to-date with everything we need from Mark Miller and Waldemar?

[15:48:51.0693] <sffc>
I sent an email to TG2 to notify them about my intent to ask for Stage 1 for the Unit protocol


2025-11-08
[17:23:43.0800] <eemeli>
I don't think the spec is up to date. I've not gone through it in detail to have an understanding of what changes are still needed, though. Not sure about the readme.


2025-11-09
[17:57:22.0318] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'm reading through this now — what's your opinion on also having the number of digits other than the unit?

[11:52:24.0590] <sffc>
> <@nicolo-ribaudo:matrix.org> I'm reading through this now — what's your opinion on also having the number of digits other than the unit?

The precision can be encoded into the string, thanks to Eemeli's proposal, so we don't need to explore that space in this one. In the future I'm open to adding more things to the protocol


2025-11-13
[08:58:12.0761] <sffc>
Is there an agenda for today's meeting?

[09:00:31.0679] <Jesse>
no agenda atm

[09:05:01.0335] <Richard Gibson>
I'll be late today if I make it at all

[09:05:22.0273] <Jesse>
we do have the call on Monday, too

[09:05:57.0409] <Jesse>
TC39 Numerics Breakout

[09:16:12.0824] <sffc>
Ok I'm going to skip today because I'm double booked


2025-11-16
[22:12:46.0468] <sffc>
I'll send out an agenda for tomorrow's Numerics breakout soon. I was thinking, roughly:

1. Takeaways from TPAC (10 minutes)
2. Longer-term vision for numerics, including Amount and Decimal, and which use cases each proposal aims to solve (30 minutes)
3. Discuss Amount design concerns with Olivier (30 minutes)
4. Plans for TC39 this week (20 minutes)
5. Buffer (30 minutes)

wdyt?

[22:14:03.0018] <sffc>
In addition to the above, I added a topic to the TG5 agenda about Numerics.

[22:16:54.0313] <sffc>
Question for Jesse, do you have slides for Decimal motivation (perhaps from last year) and do you think it would be a good use of time to go through those slides, with a 15-20 minute timebox?

