2025-10-02
[09:03:25.0666] <eemeli>
I seem to be the only one on the call. Anyone else planning on joining?

[09:03:40.0538] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I unfortunately have a TG4 call at the same time

[09:05:18.0055] <eemeli>
Ok, dropping off. Anyone showing up late, ping me here.

[09:09:30.0223] <sffc>
I am in the call with Richard

[09:12:24.0876] <sffc>
eemeli?

[15:59:05.0795] <sffc>
I switched the polarity of meeting weeks starting in 2026 in order to align with the first TG1 and TG2.

[16:00:55.0464] <sffc>
2025-12-11 is the last meeting of 2025, and 2026-01-16 is the first meeting of 2026, because I assume people don't want to meet on Christmas Day or Gregorian New Years Day. It also means that we need to have any proposals on the TG1 agenda before we have our first meeting in 2026.


2025-10-03
[17:05:54.0741] <sffc>
Today eemeli said that one of my suggested compromise names `AnnotatedNumericString` was too long and made it sound like something you wouldn't want to use. I just want to point out that it is indeed shorter than `Temporal.PlainMonthDay`. It is long enough that it makes you look at the docs to figure out what it does, which is a good outcome.

[17:06:10.0710] <sffc>
* Today eemeli said that one of my suggested compromise names `AnnotatedNumericString` was too long and made it sound like something you wouldn't want to use. I just want to point out that it is no longer than `Temporal.PlainMonthDay`. It is long enough that it makes you look at the docs to figure out what it does, which is a good outcome.

[17:06:29.0245] <sffc>
* Today eemeli said that one of my suggested compromise names `AnnotatedNumericString` was too long and made it sound like something you wouldn't want to use. I just want to point out that it is no longer than `Temporal.PlainYearMonth` and friends. It is long enough that it makes you look at the docs to figure out what it does, which is a good outcome.

[17:08:26.0650] <sffc>
I'm also fine with `NumericString` and just defining that the type supports annotations.

Are other people open to this direction?

[01:29:46.0855] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I'd be ok with it, I don't know yet if I prefer the more or less descriptive one. It'd be nice maybe to do StringAmount or AmountString to keep alignment with the html proposal


2025-10-07
[20:10:12.0214] <sffc>
Potential footguns involving operators: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-amount/issues/71. `amount++` is an interesting one. We should probably document how all the operators interact with Amount.


2025-10-16
[08:33:18.0480] <eemeli>
We've a call in half an hour, right?

[08:41:32.0295] <Jesse>
yes!


2025-10-20
[09:42:55.0376] <sffc>
(fyi, I received the V8 position doc, but they said it's only intended for internal communication. sorry)

[15:31:06.0929] <Rob Palmer>
Could we perhaps invite Olivier to reflect V8 directly in here? Squeezing comms through documents and intermediaries risks over-entrenchment of positions.


2025-10-21
[19:48:39.0097] <sffc>
I'll check. In the meantime I'm still working to develop a cohesive Google consensus. I don't mean for you to get involved with internal negotiations. I just wanted to share an update since Eemeli specifically asked about it at the champions meeting last week.

[00:57:17.0890] <Rob Palmer>
Thank you. It's entirely positive that you're able to resolve differences within your company first. It's the comms after that can benefit from being heard directly.


2025-10-22
[00:39:03.0735] <sffc>
Just learned about "CSSUnitValue" which is kind-of an Amount but only for CSS units. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSUnitValue

[03:39:01.0253] <eemeli>
Yup.

[03:40:32.0249] <eemeli>
In other news, I submitted this TPAC breakout session: https://github.com/w3c/tpac2025-breakouts/issues/57

[03:43:37.0312] <eemeli>
Having discussed the HTML proposal in some more detail with Tantek, we're interested in bringing unit conversion capability to the web platform sooner rather than later, at least in HTML.


2025-10-29
[06:20:17.0026] <eemeli>
While [adding tests](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4608) for keep-trailing-zeros, I found that some [updates](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-keep-trailing-zeros/pull/10) to the proposed spec text were required. Getting comments on those would be nice?

If possible, we should also discuss [the rounding of very small values](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-keep-trailing-zeros/issues/8#issuecomment-3137855329) tomorrow. That's not actually only about rounding to zero, but also about what happens with:
```
new Intl.NumberFormat('en', { maximumFractionDigits: 3 }).format('1.99999')
```
Should that be `'2'` or `'2.000'`?

[06:41:03.0643] <Jesse>
saw the new PR -- I'm on it

[06:44:04.0968] <Jesse>
added rounding of very small values to the agenda

[06:44:17.0917] <Jesse>
ljharb can you attend tomorrow?

[06:44:43.0628] <Jesse>
just a suggestion to double/triple check the time of the call for you (daylight savings time switches are afoot!)

[08:51:41.0920] <ljharb>
I’ll try


2025-10-30
[09:01:45.0071] <eemeli>
I'll join the call in 3-5 mins.

[09:02:43.0000] <Jesse>
meeting's on!

[10:30:25.0697] <sffc>
We discussed whether to cancel the meetings on 10/13 due to TPAC and 10/27 due to Thanksgiving. I'm also open to hosting a numerics breakout at Google Shibuya in Tokyo sometime during the week of plenary (Monday or Friday).

[10:33:38.0855] <eemeli>
At least Monday 17 November should work for me; I'll be flying back home on the Friday of that week, but late in the day so something earlier could also work then. But meeting before rather than after would probably be better.

[10:35:33.0677] <sffc>
There is a TG5 meeting on Monday. Should we try to schedule around it?

[11:10:14.0233] <sffc>
TG5 is scheduled for 12:30-16:00 at Bloomberg.

Would you be interested in 9:00-11:30 for the numerics breakout?


2025-10-31
[00:18:51.0995] <Jesse>
I'm afraid I won't be in Japan but I can try to attend any numerics-related sessions remotely

[15:11:10.0944] <ljharb>
sorry i couldn’t make it yesterday

