2026-01-06
[13:01:08.0036] <sffc>
I created https://github.com/tc39/proposal-amount/issues/75 after some chats with Oli.

[13:04:23.0207] <sffc>
I know eemeli is still waiting for "V8's list of grievances with string-based Amount", but I think as champions we can still discuss the feasibility of this direction. I added it to the agenda on Thursday


2026-01-07
[02:18:48.0991] <eemeli>
Happy to discuss that tomorrow, though the issue does seem to bury the lede a bit? As in, from what I understand, the problem that is being proposed to be solved is near the end:
> The primary advantage of this direction is that it avoids blessing string decimals as a first-class numeric data type (something the Amount champions insist is not the intent, but which has a risk of being interpreted that way by the community).

_That_ seems like an abbreviated representation of the kind of actual issue that I have been asking to be actually raised, so that it can be discussed:
- What is meant by "blessing string decimals as a first-class numeric data type"?
- What's the problem with doing something like that?
- Is it our intent to do or not do so?
- Is the problem about what the Amount proposal is doing, or is this strictly about avoiding a slippery slope?

[02:27:37.0579] <eemeli>
Also, just to be clear and explicit about it: Even though the agenda for the next plenary is still remarkably empty, I am quite strongly of the opinion that _**no Amount topics ought to be added to this TG1 meeting's agenda**_.

At the last meeting, we got some quite clear direction from the committee that the inclusion of unit conversion ought to be explored as a part this proposal's first step. No work on this has been done since the November meeting, and we have no alignment among this group about the details around this. Attempting to discuss things further in committee is very unlikely to be fruitful, and we should avoid doing so at this time.

[14:29:30.0334] <sffc>
> <@eemeli:mozilla.org> Happy to discuss that tomorrow, though the issue does seem to bury the lede a bit? As in, from what I understand, the problem that is being proposed to be solved is near the end:
> > The primary advantage of this direction is that it avoids blessing string decimals as a first-class numeric data type (something the Amount champions insist is not the intent, but which has a risk of being interpreted that way by the community).
> 
> _That_ seems like an abbreviated representation of the kind of actual issue that I have been asking to be actually raised, so that it can be discussed:
> - What is meant by "blessing string decimals as a first-class numeric data type"?
> - What's the problem with doing something like that?
> - Is it our intent to do or not do so?
> - Is the problem about what the Amount proposal is doing, or is this strictly about avoiding a slippery slope?

This is what I meant by: I know eemeli is still waiting for "V8's list of grievances with string-based Amount", but I think as champions we can still discuss the feasibility of this direction. I added it to the agenda on Thursday

[14:32:47.0586] <sffc>
I share those same four bullet points and spent extensive time trying to dissect them but kept getting stuck in circular arguments with the V8 team. The little actionable feedback, I've posted as issues.

[14:35:02.0222] <sffc>
Their position is very much "this proposal smells like a new decimal type and we don't support a new decimal type". I want to look into whether this new path of a number based amount solves the champion's use cases, since it avoids that debate

[14:36:53.0103] <sffc>
> <@eemeli:mozilla.org> Also, just to be clear and explicit about it: Even though the agenda for the next plenary is still remarkably empty, I am quite strongly of the opinion that _**no Amount topics ought to be added to this TG1 meeting's agenda**_.
> 
> At the last meeting, we got some quite clear direction from the committee that the inclusion of unit conversion ought to be explored as a part this proposal's first step. No work on this has been done since the November meeting, and we have no alignment among this group about the details around this. Attempting to discuss things further in committee is very unlikely to be fruitful, and we should avoid doing so at this time.

Are you open to discussing open issues on Intl Unit Protocol, like the one about string protocol vs object protocol vs methods?

[14:37:11.0242] <sffc>
* Are you open to discussing open issues on Intl Unit Protocol, like the one about string protocol vs object protocol vs methods? (Not for stage advancement)


2026-01-08
[01:13:47.0287] <eemeli>
Has the unit protocol been discussed on a Numerics or TG2 call after its presentation to TG1? Both of those feel like appropriate forums for it, and tbf I found jumping over them to present directly to TG1 to have been a bit surprising. Are you now asking about discussing the unit protocol further in TG1 before or after Numerics and TG2 discussions on it?

[01:15:01.0592] <eemeli>
As a sidenote, I'll be on vacation for the rest of January after this week, and so will miss this month's plenary.

[01:18:38.0802] <eemeli>
sffc, Richard Gibson: Would you be able to review these PRs, or clarify that you don't think they need review before merging? These were discussed at the last plenary and got support in principle, but still need something like a review:
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-keep-trailing-zeros/pull/10
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-keep-trailing-zeros/pull/12


2026-01-15
[09:04:27.0087] <sffc>
I'll join today's call in a few minutes, with Ben


2026-01-17
[00:51:53.0466] <sffc>
There's been a few high-quality comments from community members the last few days on the Amount proposal repo. Anyone know where they came from / how they discovered it?

