2026-02-13
[13:54:58.0221] <sffc>
Oli is available to join next Wednesday. I'm confirming the exact time.


2026-02-17
[07:58:31.0038] <eemeli>
For consideration on our call tomorrow, I've filed two separate PRs for Amount:
- [Re-include unit conversion in the proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-amount/pull/80)
- [Simplify instance API](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-amount/pull/81)

The former is as discussed on our last call; the latter is a separate change that I think would make Amount fit its use cases more closely, without extending beyond them.

There's also a small fix-up PR mostly adding links to TC39 discussions for Amount.

[09:44:52.0850] <sffc>
Oli is available 8-9 PT.

[11:44:04.0357] <eemeli>
Works for me.


2026-02-18
[23:11:06.0031] <Jesse>
I'll be there

[23:27:34.0082] <ljharb>
i won't be able to make it (in general) during that time.

[13:18:52.0584] <eemeli>
I've updated both of my PRs as discussed today.

[13:39:41.0978] <Richard Gibson>
[cc sffc] relative to our conversation about non-decimal Intl mathematical values, it looks like [ToIntlMathematicalValue](https://tc39.es/ecma402/#sec-tointlmathematicalvalue) requires that every non-bigint input for which [RoundMVResult](https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/abstract-operations.html#sec-roundmvresult) produces an infinite result is treated as that infinity—and that implementations get it wrong: https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/4933


2026-02-19
[18:34:53.0000] <sffc>
Yes that's right; I recall seeing this before. I think Firefox is the only browser doing the right thing

[18:51:38.0760] <sffc>
eemeli: want to give an update on this in TG2 tomorrow?

[18:51:59.0791] <sffc>
* ---
@eemeli:mozilla.org: want to give an update on Amount in TG2 tomorrow?

[18:52:08.0801] <sffc>
*  

@eemeli:mozilla.org: want to give an update on Amount in TG2 tomorrow?

[21:59:00.0668] <eemeli>
Sure, can do.


2026-02-20
[23:55:38.0076] <eemeli>
I've now merged Amount PRs #80 and #81, so that the work on spec text updates can start. Was it Jesse who's taking point on that?

[00:01:03.0544] <Jesse>
yup, just saw your merge -- I'm on it

[00:01:05.0752] <Jesse>
thanks!


2026-02-24
[16:44:39.0710] <sffc>
I am on the hook for updating the spec for Intl MV Limits PR, and probably Intl Unit Protocol assuming we want to advance it. Anything else?

[00:13:36.0908] <Jesse>
I think that's it

[00:14:07.0006] <Jesse>
I'll open a PR for Amount spec text updates

[00:17:35.0836] <Jesse>
shall we go for Stage 2?

[02:50:24.0047] <eemeli>
I think so, if we get the spec text in good enough shape.

