[
{"content":{"body":"Are we going to give an update in the next TC39 meeting?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1687551364965,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$hxgZlJG0hLCMwnyy_36CqVcdf86s228qOfGVCmdc9t8"},
{"content":{"body":"some things we might discuss:\n- The additional use cases presented by Google\n- Progress on the implementation design strategies and draft implementation in V8, including explaining the kinds of things that we're trying to prove to get to Stage 3\n- Progress on HTML integration (or at least just laying out the conceptual design space), including explaining what we need to do to get to Stage 3\n- More depth on the layering with task attribution [maybe we should get a better understanding with Yoav first before bringing this to the committee]\n- Some of the answers that we've been reaching in the issue tracker","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>some things we might discuss:</p>\n<ul>\n<li>The additional use cases presented by Google</li>\n<li>Progress on the implementation design strategies and draft implementation in V8, including explaining the kinds of things that we're trying to prove to get to Stage 3</li>\n<li>Progress on HTML integration (or at least just laying out the conceptual design space), including explaining what we need to do to get to Stage 3</li>\n<li>More depth on the layering with task attribution [maybe we should get a better understanding with Yoav first before bringing this to the committee]</li>\n<li>Some of the answers that we've been reaching in the issue tracker</li>\n</ul>\n","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1687551533489,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$nUqpfPk1cx5Uad9aMV6jqh9T0hvzCmlYh5VjksFADqA"}
]