[
{"content":{"body":"we should get this on the agenda asap, even if placeholder for the presenter.  we also need to include the appointment/consensus for the convenor(s)/chair(s) of TG4","m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$L8kwL3stXHxEuahSHFD3qzgg5MOAS646mIPEE7OUBno","is_falling_back":true,"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$L8kwL3stXHxEuahSHFD3qzgg5MOAS646mIPEE7OUBno"},"rel_type":"m.thread"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1687904593324,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$sAVZrEyKS4qdoUsGemjMIF66sdDZHZTf56wMpf8noig"},
{"content":{"body":"suggest adding this under the TG3 item in the agenda.  how long do you think is needed for the presentation portion?","m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$L8kwL3stXHxEuahSHFD3qzgg5MOAS646mIPEE7OUBno","is_falling_back":true,"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$sAVZrEyKS4qdoUsGemjMIF66sdDZHZTf56wMpf8noig"},"rel_type":"m.thread"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1687904652610,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$-JBaB_OG7yLFQ3T80jeKoEafUd4TBhryCFZ1wEbi-8A"}
]