[
{"content":{"body":"Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:\n\n- Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)\n- Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)\n- Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)\n- RFC on `sourceMappingURL` comment?\n- Anything else?","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:</p>\n<ul>\n<li>Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)</li>\n<li>Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)</li>\n<li>Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)</li>\n<li>RFC on <code>sourceMappingURL</code> comment?</li>\n<li>Anything else?</li>\n</ul>\n","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1712248709466,"senderName":"jkup","senderId":"@jkup:matrix.org","id":"$e5Pt1Psgm3NUqI_As-txsA9okn2xTXIYgh-0PSh69XI"},
{"content":{"body":" * Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:\n\n- Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)\n- Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)\n- Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)\n- RFC on `sourceMappingURL` comment?\n- Confirmed hackathon dates?\n- Anything else?","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":" * <p>Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:</p>\n<ul>\n<li>Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)</li>\n<li>Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)</li>\n<li>Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)</li>\n<li>RFC on <code>sourceMappingURL</code> comment?</li>\n<li>Confirmed hackathon dates?</li>\n<li>Anything else?</li>\n</ul>\n","m.mentions":{},"m.new_content":{"body":"Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:\n\n- Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)\n- Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)\n- Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)\n- RFC on `sourceMappingURL` comment?\n- Confirmed hackathon dates?\n- Anything else?","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>Next week is TC39 plenary! For those who don't know we always give a ~5 minute update during plenary both to keep folks in the loop but also to highlight what we're currently working on in case anyone wants to join. I was hoping to cover:</p>\n<ul>\n<li>Work being done on the scopes proposal (progress on spec as well as early start of implementation)</li>\n<li>Work being done on the testing initiative (might be too early to request feedback but at least people know we're actively working on it)</li>\n<li>Examples of the work we're doing hardening the spec (Asumu's last two comments in here would be great for that)</li>\n<li>RFC on <code>sourceMappingURL</code> comment?</li>\n<li>Confirmed hackathon dates?</li>\n<li>Anything else?</li>\n</ul>\n","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$e5Pt1Psgm3NUqI_As-txsA9okn2xTXIYgh-0PSh69XI","rel_type":"m.replace"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1712248733786,"senderName":"jkup","senderId":"@jkup:matrix.org","id":"$gAolDx080kit2jjYym9vWGyyOkh3ZQpVj41R6NsKYM0"}
]