[
{"content":{"body":"@szuend:matrix.org you think this is fine to merge? https://github.com/tc39/ecma426/pull/204","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@szuend:matrix.org\">@szuend:matrix.org</a> you think this is fine to merge? https://github.com/tc39/ecma426/pull/204","m.mentions":{"user_ids":["@szuend:matrix.org"]},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1745407623231,"senderName":"Luca Forstner","senderId":"@lforst_sentry:matrix.org","id":"$w-_83nBPeYWl-f8-J8fFcV5GfNovrgoXf5MezJDPQ34"},
{"content":{"body":"yeah should be fine. I just normally like to keep PRs open for a bit so others also have some time to respond","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1745407695197,"senderName":"Simon Zünd","senderId":"@szuend:matrix.org","id":"$_lnploF6JVnJv0DzLIRkE3BbdsZRiNF4H4-fh4Ll8Os"},
{"content":{"body":"but in this case should be good to merge","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1745407717985,"senderName":"Simon Zünd","senderId":"@szuend:matrix.org","id":"$G_hEOeYbRAVXsrFRJwTsaG9525l8K2fTCpP4oLvGSl8"},
{"content":{"body":"Since Simon and I have been cooking a bit on the Debug ID proposal and found a lot more use-cases that where debug IDs would be useful even without changes in ecma262, I think it would be cool to move forward a bit.\n\nIs it a good idea to start working on a PR to the spec itself? Or should there be more bikeshedding around the proposal first?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1745407890371,"senderName":"Luca Forstner","senderId":"@lforst_sentry:matrix.org","id":"$HkQ0gd9kWHy6OhioMU5T7hnYusegXrhBiCJUWyz4vuQ"},
{"content":{"body":"* Since Simon and I have been cooking a bit on the Debug ID proposal and found a lot more use-cases where debug IDs would be useful even without changes in ecma262, I think it would be cool to move forward a bit.\n\nIs it a good idea to start working on a PR to the spec itself? Or should there be more bikeshedding around the proposal first?","m.mentions":{},"m.new_content":{"body":"Since Simon and I have been cooking a bit on the Debug ID proposal and found a lot more use-cases where debug IDs would be useful even without changes in ecma262, I think it would be cool to move forward a bit.\n\nIs it a good idea to start working on a PR to the spec itself? Or should there be more bikeshedding around the proposal first?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$HkQ0gd9kWHy6OhioMU5T7hnYusegXrhBiCJUWyz4vuQ","rel_type":"m.replace"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1745407895223,"senderName":"Luca Forstner","senderId":"@lforst_sentry:matrix.org","id":"$MDXSPiSTQ6pplgSBxK1MB_y2SCQNKxJnBihAMqdrPi0"}
]