[
{"content":{"body":"I have a pull request with the notes, do we want to wait on publishing that or should I go ahead?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711559425723,"senderName":"yulia","senderId":"@yulia:mozilla.org","id":"$d-npsY6gkB323DJVocXO0nabkS30y1osVAoLSHKH0bE"},
{"content":{"body":"I see a PR for a readme, but not meeting notes","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711559757466,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$Mn241kreSRUcdgstLZuCWrptB4Tzix6-_Xqoi2jf0V4"},
{"content":{"body":"I haven't posted it yet, because I wanted to check if anyone objected first","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711559795467,"senderName":"yulia","senderId":"@yulia:mozilla.org","id":"$Er8yyvbKLi2ePrjYCnHLljz-3uch19Q10r7IcIwkekY"},
{"content":{"body":"because i think it is publically visible if I post notes?","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711559810204,"senderName":"yulia","senderId":"@yulia:mozilla.org","id":"$OMa2NllNJZlIX5BAS_mYPRYmRMelzsMh1TP52VTt6IM"},
{"content":{"body":"We didn't discuss how we want to do notes so i didn't feel right making it public without an explicit ok","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711559826624,"senderName":"yulia","senderId":"@yulia:mozilla.org","id":"$ypkbYsygR1IWGYidp8d5OjqonbEd9GNU01wddMFmj9c"},
{"content":{"body":"right, it would be public. I think a PR is good but also ok to wait for quorum/next meeting to decide how to proceed.  I expect if there are any concerns, it would be about some particular content of the notes and that could be addressed via PR","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711560441169,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$Mtmnv3ukzZS-dI3Mpm9wzg-LiKPqpLwIoqnRJqvuv5Y"},
{"content":{"body":"sounds good, I will wait on it","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711560461743,"senderName":"yulia","senderId":"@yulia:mozilla.org","id":"$CFubz2WmuNCEnayyzaE3cp6hFlLpjPUzu2xxI32kyc8"},
{"content":{"body":"with those meeting notes, if there could be a link to the slide deck, that would be great","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711561103859,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$CeEudI_zIfHuMBNf1FmbYTLWDx8EivCLiCEFjtF-6ms"},
{"content":{"body":"also, congrats on first TG5 meeting!  ðŸŽ‰","m.mentions":{},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711561124900,"senderName":"Chris de Almeida","senderId":"@softwarechris:matrix.org","id":"$vURBqQ15fi6QMGx3eM73ib-qKtgBPbc0PF41W6WtMZc"},
{"content":{"body":"I believe we're obligated to post any notes we take, as part of the \"entity list\" issue, and possibly Ecma bylaws","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1711567819283,"senderName":"Michael Ficarra","senderId":"@michaelficarra:matrix.org","id":"$isaCnlf1gOLcenmERti6-4ydxJ6-haw5miKxwUEVr-s"}
]