[
{"content":{"body":"We reviewed the modules presentations internally in Bloomberg. Some feedback which might be useful, especially for Luca and Guy's presentation:\n- Consider explaining that the idea is to come back and add JS module source later (which will probably be a question that has most people left hanging)\n- If this comes before Nicolo's presentation, it should reference the later one, and specifically call out the concept that we have this interdependent space that the modules group has worked out to some extent, and we'd like to land these things piecemeal such that each stands on their own but they work together well, and it wouldn't be so bad if we actually didn't follow through on the later ones.\n- In general, where possible, anticipate people's concerns and acknowledge them, or explain answers to questions about cross-cutting concerns (at least with reference links) rather than trying to gloss over things and just explaining the positive aspects.\n- The modules group isn't working like Intl since we're having trouble engaging implementers, especially browsers. We should probably organize a specific set of meetings with them, to talk through the space in general and their possible implementation concerns.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<p>We reviewed the modules presentations internally in Bloomberg. Some feedback which might be useful, especially for Luca and Guy's presentation:</p>\n<ul>\n<li>Consider explaining that the idea is to come back and add JS module source later (which will probably be a question that has most people left hanging)</li>\n<li>If this comes before Nicolo's presentation, it should reference the later one, and specifically call out the concept that we have this interdependent space that the modules group has worked out to some extent, and we'd like to land these things piecemeal such that each stands on their own but they work together well, and it wouldn't be so bad if we actually didn't follow through on the later ones.</li>\n<li>In general, where possible, anticipate people's concerns and acknowledge them, or explain answers to questions about cross-cutting concerns (at least with reference links) rather than trying to gloss over things and just explaining the positive aspects.</li>\n<li>The modules group isn't working like Intl since we're having trouble engaging implementers, especially browsers. We should probably organize a specific set of meetings with them, to talk through the space in general and their possible implementation concerns.</li>\n</ul>\n","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683736249043,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$kwzp_2A-7_objMILkOuvw_q_sgz-B0bnvMduVHmi02s"},
{"content":{"body":"@room On the SES call today, Daniel Ehrenberg suggested we have a dedicated engagement with implementers to surface VM specific module harmony concerns. I’m looking for contacts to volunteer for such a meeting so we can send out a doodle.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"@room On the SES call today, <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@littledan:mozilla.org\">Daniel Ehrenberg</a> suggested we have a dedicated engagement with implementers to surface VM specific module harmony concerns. I’m looking for contacts to volunteer for such a meeting so we can send out a doodle.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683739587834,"senderName":"Kris Kowal","senderId":"@kriskowal:matrix.org","id":"$3wtU9Ahu5gy5QhQPoJ4bdQxK0ter-hu39FLUgn60I70"},
{"content":{"body":"Please invite me and I'll pass it along to some SpiderMonkey folks who are working on module stuff.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683739726018,"senderName":"dminor","senderId":"@dminor:mozilla.org","id":"$srK5CfQ0kVggPEpZ__dpZQ4T9GwyIUAWUYqJtgt_CIY"},
{"content":{"body":"I'll show up too, of course :)","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683739733045,"senderName":"dminor","senderId":"@dminor:mozilla.org","id":"$UpgqxzG9aNr7BpvWDLu2TZSme2lbNf7Bjq9T-nRZhaY"},
{"content":{"body":"Kris Kowal: send me an invite but i don't have that many cycles to spare. i'd like relatively infrequent and very targeted with concrete questions in the agenda?","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@kriskowal:matrix.org\">Kris Kowal</a>: send me an invite but i don't have that many cycles to spare. i'd like relatively infrequent and very targeted with concrete questions in the agenda?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740125233,"senderName":"shu","senderId":"@shuyuguo:matrix.org","id":"$f5Zd7rihjcFxW-qWh29ihGQsgP0ps0fyYu1y7d23PhA"},
{"content":{"body":"> <@shuyuguo:matrix.org> Kris Kowal: send me an invite but i don't have that many cycles to spare. i'd like relatively infrequent and very targeted with concrete questions in the agenda?\n\nThat can be arranged. We can put such a thing together on the module harmony calls leading up.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<mx-reply><blockquote><a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/!RkpmGMjJtqLKXzByOT:matrix.org/$f5Zd7rihjcFxW-qWh29ihGQsgP0ps0fyYu1y7d23PhA?via=matrix.org&via=igalia.com&via=mozilla.org\">In reply to</a> <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@shuyuguo:matrix.org\">@shuyuguo:matrix.org</a><br><a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@kriskowal:matrix.org\">Kris Kowal</a>: send me an invite but i don't have that many cycles to spare. i'd like relatively infrequent and very targeted with concrete questions in the agenda?</blockquote></mx-reply>That can be arranged. We can put such a thing together on the module harmony calls leading up.","m.relates_to":{"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$f5Zd7rihjcFxW-qWh29ihGQsgP0ps0fyYu1y7d23PhA"}},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740314695,"senderName":"Kris Kowal","senderId":"@kriskowal:matrix.org","id":"$0JozDg5S9vXEcaAI7M7JWy1kj9MWztJZwKcDoBf6bmA"},
{"content":{"body":"We can also ask the XS folk to show us where they found challenges in their implementation of Compartments.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740370394,"senderName":"Kris Kowal","senderId":"@kriskowal:matrix.org","id":"$KDY_bWqDS_FyM95vuxH_R07lvjZixR8A8_nn2rUT8Ww"},
{"content":{"body":"Since Compartments capture most of the layers of module harmony.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740391857,"senderName":"Kris Kowal","senderId":"@kriskowal:matrix.org","id":"$T0c-QTQQ9YxnogH-VHgN5L3FLB-dtMJjPcJmO4nqwMo"},
{"content":{"body":"The piece of feedback we’ve already received is that virtualizing modules led to the discovery of existing bugs in their module internals, since those behaviors could then be excited by fuzzing.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740488127,"senderName":"Kris Kowal","senderId":"@kriskowal:matrix.org","id":"$lmpzWc-c4uscgjPAlKoYvKFYNPNxaLmLqNqPQp2mZqA"},
{"content":{"body":"cc phoddie (Peter Hoddie)  re implementer show and tell for module harmony.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"cc <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@phoddie-5e6ee6f0d73408ce4fdcdb03:gitter.im\">phoddie (Peter Hoddie)</a>  re implementer show and tell for module harmony.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740583342,"senderName":"Kris Kowal","senderId":"@kriskowal:matrix.org","id":"$7udLkNl2OCrjETkGAfYBh5-HMD17qqU0rSgrAyyLdhk"},
{"content":{"body":"well and you have my longstanding feedback, that i am, in general, against exposing previously un-user code exposed things to user code","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1683740688896,"senderName":"shu","senderId":"@shuyuguo:matrix.org","id":"$MQggM43bug2yHtNsVFvN3y2OG185ZxG45CvPjqMivUw"}
]