[
{"content":{"body":"another heads up for delegates, about Temporal. we got another spec bug report from two implementors today, and while investigating that one, Justin found another spec bug. I've added the fixes to the slides that I will present on Wednesday, but again since they are late additions, we understand if delegates will need more time to consider them.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1635210105760,"senderName":"ptomato","senderId":"@pchimento:igalia.com","id":"$vPYTbLonGxfWb-QIjD_nF5U3pkub22MLo2-JWzwJh44"},
{"content":{"body":"Was there no CoC Committee update in the first session? It was on the agenda, but I didn’t hear any update and it’s not in the notes.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1635217546358,"senderName":"jschoi","senderId":"@jschoi:matrix.org","id":"$2qjjrrRNGQ-8gHn7V2SrQM6fvUqthW8ow6fXO98J61A"},
{"content":{"body":"No, I think the plan was to have it later. ","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1635237829592,"senderName":"sarahghp","senderId":"@sarahghp:matrix.org","id":"$45WzQSg1PjEUZenUIpcNYbCNeIdW2QafIXuBj6tlriI"}
]