[
{"content":{"body":"any delegates have an opinion on whether https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/2312#pullrequestreview-1012089158 is a change that needs to be presented at plenary? the author (anba) marked it as \"normative\" but to me it seems like it fixes an invalidity in the proposal as written, i.e. it wouldn't be implementable without this","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"any delegates have an opinion on whether https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/2312#pullrequestreview-1012089158 is a change that needs to be presented at plenary? the author (anba) marked it as \"normative\" but to me it seems like it fixes an invalidity in the proposal as written, i.e. it wouldn't be implementable without this"},"ts":1655802065812,"senderName":"ptomato","senderId":"@pchimento:igalia.com","id":"$aH_H62GAyVGbQqjBkgrpZy2e6FLNIydgo6v5FWFXV0c"}
]