[
{"content":{"body":"any Mozilla delegates want to present https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2233 as a needs-consensus PR at the upcoming meeting? dminor ","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"any Mozilla delegates want to present https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2233 as a needs-consensus PR at the upcoming meeting? <a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@dminor:mozilla.org\">dminor</a>","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693441986509,"senderName":"Michael Ficarra","senderId":"@michaelficarra:matrix.org","id":"$UrgcOYMhhoSvXrbnhXvlN6CgyNLPJcEYH4njUYIbzHk"},
{"content":{"body":"Michael Ficarra: I like your stage extension proposal (the new stage before stage 3) and I wonder if you should include a bullet for the new stage: HTML integration to happen before Stage 3. This would meet exactly where ShadowRealms are right now and clear out a lot of bumps we faced.\n\n","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@michaelficarra:matrix.org\">Michael Ficarra</a>: I like your stage extension proposal (the new stage before stage 3) and I wonder if you should include a bullet for the new stage: HTML integration to happen before Stage 3. This would meet exactly where ShadowRealms are right now and clear out a lot of bumps we faced.","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693504555723,"senderName":"leobalter","senderId":"@leobalter:matrix.org","id":"$LLRwETsh9g4Okl4lWekhow9dRKExsachhmlFXJ2Ti64"},
{"content":{"body":"the bullet would be more specific to the Slide 7: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HtcFY98qWy-LPJLawRIkYzhDEjuEeyArMiNXbCOFcrk/view#slide=id.g252bc9353ee_0_3049","m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$LLRwETsh9g4Okl4lWekhow9dRKExsachhmlFXJ2Ti64","is_falling_back":true,"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$LLRwETsh9g4Okl4lWekhow9dRKExsachhmlFXJ2Ti64"},"rel_type":"m.thread"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693504575618,"senderName":"leobalter","senderId":"@leobalter:matrix.org","id":"$X3R9Hy_6lQ7qb0eSk7dJQfLewi1udDpKwN5Ve-iEbrI"},
{"content":{"body":"leobalter: I think that should probably be pursued as a follow-on. Currently, the only new entrance requirement is the sufficiency of the tests. I would rather get that part settled and then later, once we have the new stage as our foundation to build on, consider additional entrance requirements. I don't want any added complexity to potentially compromise and further delay this change.","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<a href=\"https://matrix.to/#/@leobalter:matrix.org\">leobalter</a>: I think that should probably be pursued as a follow-on. Currently, the only new entrance requirement is the sufficiency of the tests. I would rather get that part settled and then later, once we have the new stage as our foundation to build on, consider additional entrance requirements. I don't want any added complexity to potentially compromise and further delay this change.","m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$LLRwETsh9g4Okl4lWekhow9dRKExsachhmlFXJ2Ti64","is_falling_back":true,"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$X3R9Hy_6lQ7qb0eSk7dJQfLewi1udDpKwN5Ve-iEbrI"},"rel_type":"m.thread"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693509573538,"senderName":"Michael Ficarra","senderId":"@michaelficarra:matrix.org","id":"$L2bajxu6by02_eWCY5_C0W2yygt_RCV_V7YQUfypySM"},
{"content":{"body":"I have no blocking takes. I think the idea is valid, it has been raised and technically if a champion wants to go faster to Stage 3 they can get those items ready along with Stage 2. \n\nI think the challenge is gonna be around \"no flip-flopping\". Perhaps the expectation of mitigating them is raised, but I wouldn't be surprised to continue (now less) implementation details coming up to change a few things.\n\n","m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$LLRwETsh9g4Okl4lWekhow9dRKExsachhmlFXJ2Ti64","is_falling_back":true,"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$L2bajxu6by02_eWCY5_C0W2yygt_RCV_V7YQUfypySM"},"rel_type":"m.thread"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693509907379,"senderName":"leobalter","senderId":"@leobalter:matrix.org","id":"$9Zjy7TTUSRq6wNT0angvc_vXYiD_9yWyu9qwU55sDEI"},
{"content":{"body":"> but I wouldn't be surprised to continue (now less) implementation details coming up to change a few things.\n\nI don't know what this means","format":"org.matrix.custom.html","formatted_body":"<blockquote>\n<p>but I wouldn't be surprised to continue (now less) implementation details coming up to change a few things.</p>\n</blockquote>\n<p>I don't know what this means</p>\n","m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$LLRwETsh9g4Okl4lWekhow9dRKExsachhmlFXJ2Ti64","is_falling_back":true,"m.in_reply_to":{"event_id":"$9Zjy7TTUSRq6wNT0angvc_vXYiD_9yWyu9qwU55sDEI"},"rel_type":"m.thread"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693510693236,"senderName":"Michael Ficarra","senderId":"@michaelficarra:matrix.org","id":"$9GWH4T8-Y5bwMVNzwv6vbh6i-rK02m5mgSJLRkMih8Y"},
{"content":{"body":"iterator helpers has a web compat issue and chrome is unshipping for now: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-iterator-helpers/issues/286","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1693519129837,"senderName":"shu","senderId":"@shuyuguo:matrix.org","id":"$ryfmVVtmZ9E-A-MkZ6eT1pKZrVv_mQv_oF6sLXQv29I"}
]