2024-12-11
[08:48:31.0721] <Romulo Cintra>
Hi @room we are back in 10 min TC39/JavaScript tools discussion

Video call link: https://meet.google.com/iqb-pdpn-evh
Or dial: ‪(US) +1 260-638-0323‬ PIN: ‪526 486 488‬#
Agenda : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RlnAnMa4QzQUK_tNOHdWfnske2X9KZ_e90VBG-DWqUo/edit 

[09:50:10.0433] <Boshen Chen>
Thank you for re-initiating the tooling discussions.

Regarding getting more tooling authors involved - what kind of invitation should we send out and ask around?

[09:51:54.0415] <Boshen Chen>
I'm super new to all these processes, so is still getting acquainted.

[09:52:09.0415] <Romulo Cintra>
https://github.com/tc39/js-outreach-groups

[09:52:18.0379] <Romulo Cintra>
There is a contact form

[09:52:18.0796] <Romulo Cintra>
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfnYeL6UMPe4ZKcfEP8slKubyv1KYlKE8efaLJznMlx1qt9kw/viewform?usp=send_form

[09:52:29.0922] <Romulo Cintra>
I visit time to time and onboard people to the meeting invite 

[09:52:34.0703] <Romulo Cintra>
maybe should make it more official 

[09:56:26.0302] <Boshen Chen>
Making things more official would be great! 

As a new comber to tooling, I really wished a place where I can ask around and seek for implementation alignments. Even a formal place where we could document implementation differences.

[09:59:36.0957] <Boshen Chen>
Another example: I really wish for all toolings to deprecate the `browser` field https://github.com/defunctzombie/package-browser-field-spec


2024-12-16
[14:49:18.0490] <Jan Olaf Martin>
As discussed in the last meeting, I created an issue here to collect the various tooling behaviors that may be interesting: https://github.com/tc39/js-outreach-groups/issues/49

[14:50:04.0385] <Jan Olaf Martin>
Feel free to comment on the issue with additional items, references, disagreement on the organization, etc.!

