2022-04-05
[15:30:00.0926] <sarahghp>
Hi friends! I will be out again this Thursday (doin' art) and so I will miss the call again. I took a look at the notes, and I agree the RFC process makes sense. 

I need to look at our derivative RFC of course to see if there a few things I'd change, but generally seems like a good plan. I trust Philip to represent for everything else, and I look back to being on a call with you all soon. 


2022-04-07
[11:10:07.0675] <Rick Waldron>
lol, whoops. I didn't mean to reply to a post

[11:10:09.0740] <Rick Waldron>
I'm in a meeting that's running over. I will join ours asap

[11:10:21.0125] <Rick Waldron>
@room ^^

[11:10:40.0604] <ljharb>
so far it's just three of us

[11:15:16.0473] <ljharb>
https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3A%22needs+tests%22+label%3A%22has+consensus%22

[11:15:44.0685] <ljharb>
 * https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3A%22needs+tests%22+label%3A%22has+consensus%22

