2022-07-12
[14:09:26.0639] <ptomato>
any objections if I merge https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3523


2022-07-14
[11:02:57.0694] <ptomato>
is today one of our meeting days?

[11:27:05.0217] <Rick Waldron>
What is our process for discussing proposals like this?

[11:27:10.0631] <Rick Waldron>
(Shu's proposal)

[12:03:58.0005] <ptomato>
> <@rwaldron:matrix.org> What is our process for discussing proposals like this?

I think in the future it'd be ideal to use the RFC process for that, but also it seems like Shu basically already did the legwork that the RFC process requires

[12:15:33.0183] <ptomato>
do we have a collective email alias for test262 maintainers?

[12:16:27.0247] <ptomato>
(that'll be easier than figuring out who wasn't included on the email from the ESMeta folks and what address they'd like it forwarded to)

[12:33:56.0908] <ljharb>
we don't, but we could make one

[12:38:11.0886] <ptomato>
alternatively Richard Gibson if you want to PM me your email address? I think I have everyone else's

[12:44:50.0917] <ptomato>
ok, you all should have an email forwarded by me, originally from Sukyoung Ryu, titled " ESMeta updates & recent issues/bugs in ECMA-262 and Test262"


2022-07-18
[15:29:52.0240] <ptomato>
could I get a rubber-stamp from any of you on https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3606 ? this is for about 1/3 of the tests from Anba's giant PR that I've already reviewed


2022-07-19
[11:15:55.0781] <ptomato>
hey, we forgot to designate someone to give the update in plenary

[11:16:10.0987] <ptomato>
what to say? some suggestions

[11:16:26.0428] <ptomato>
- RFC process in draft

[11:16:34.0547] <ptomato>
- staging directory

[11:17:04.0365] <ljharb>
sounds good

[11:17:05.0493] <ptomato>
- landed tests for regexp set notation

[11:17:13.0513] <ljharb>
go for it :-) i've talked enough for the morning

[11:18:07.0591] <ptomato>
anything I'm missing?

[11:19:49.0773] <ljharb>
¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯ seems like a complete enough list to me

[11:19:51.0993] <ljharb>
 * ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯ seems like a complete enough list to me


2022-07-25
[10:23:45.0786] <ptomato>
one thing to kick off the staging directory might be, to move all of the old proposal-temporal tests (which we are gradually converting into the test262 format) into the staging directory

[10:26:37.0081] <ptomato>
proposal-temporal is not "an implementor" as such, but we do have tests that it would be beneficial for implementors to execute already

[10:27:07.0921] <ptomato>
Ms2ger was coincidentally thinking along those lines a few weeks ago and did an experiment with porting the old tests to use the test262 assertions: https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3591/files

[10:27:13.0653] <ptomato>
what do you think?

[10:29:43.0320] <shu>
i agreed dan's comments during plenary

[10:30:22.0378] <shu>
my motivation was narrowly about implementations -- but really it should be open to any test writer, the issue to iron out is who reviews those

[10:30:38.0540] <shu>
the implementation thing answers the review question: it's by the implementation teams

[10:31:01.0593] <shu>
we don't need a very in-depth spec coverage review, but we do need a correctness review

[10:41:13.0249] <shu>
i think until we answer the review question, let's keep the initial set of folks on the can-land-in-staging team to the implementers, i'll send out an email to relevant people later today


2022-07-26
[22:57:49.0290] <ljharb>
lmk when you want teams made, and with whom


2022-07-27
[22:22:42.0381] <ptomato>
are we having our post-plenary meeting this Thursday, or the following?


2022-07-28
[01:16:42.0345] <ljharb>
I’m still out of town this week, but I’d be there the following week.

[10:39:49.0724] <ptomato>
so, skipping this week I'm assuming

[13:19:21.0179] <ptomato>
anyone know how to clear the cache for `npm install` on circle-ci?

[13:19:53.0432] <ptomato>
graaljs fails installation because we need esvu 1.2.9 but have 1.2.8 in the cache


2022-07-30
[01:23:13.0993] <ljharb>
if you need that version, shouldn't package.json declaring it be sufficient?

