2023-03-08
[08:05:01.0276] <ptomato>
ljharb: Ms2ger: Rick Waldron: can you make it to the maintainers meeting today?

[08:05:18.0569] <Ms2ger>
No, got a conflic, sorry

[08:05:24.0859] <ljharb>
I can in like 20 minutes

[08:05:35.0289] <ljharb>
this timeslot usually doesn’t work for me tho

[08:06:09.0824] <ptomato>
oh, dang. should we redo the poll? this was the only one that worked for everyone at the time

[08:06:55.0042] <ljharb>
my Wednesday morning schedule changed since that time unfortunately

[08:43:03.0365] <ljharb>
```
test262 updates:
 - updated a bunch of tests (champions, please keep up to date about your proposals' test status)
 - RFC process and maintenance practice rationales documented
 - Async Helpers implementation merged
 - google funding gone?
```

[08:52:53.0076] <ljharb>
 * ```
test262 updates:
 - updated a bunch of tests (champions, please keep up to date about your proposals' test status)
 - RFC process and maintenance practice rationales documented
 - Async Helpers implementation merged
 - for normative changes to proposals with tests, the notes should indicate who is responsible for filing a test262 issue to track changes
 - google funding gone?
```

[10:16:28.0108] <shu>
ljharb: can confirm on last bullet, will end at end of Q1

[10:16:35.0906] <shu>
i will make an announcement at the next plenary

[10:16:52.0411] <ljharb>
right, the question mark was more, "not sure what to say". ideally your announcement comes before our test262 update, if possible

[10:17:00.0929] <shu>
yeah, or just part of it

[10:17:12.0512] <shu>
i wish it weren't so but, what do they say? "different economic reality"


2023-03-14
[16:26:15.0407] <jasew>
Hello 262!
Boa was interested in running tests against just a specific version. Such as ES5 or ES2015 etc. Is there an idiomatic way of doing this? like checking out a branch or parsing for tags like this: 
https://github.com/tc39/test262/blob/main/test/language/directive-prologue/func-decl-final-runtime.js#L5-L6

Thanks

[16:30:15.0623] <jasew>
 * Hello 262!
Boa was interested in running tests against just a specific version. Such as ES5 or ES2015 etc. Is there an idiomatic way of doing this? like checking out a branch or parsing the frontmatter for tags like this: 
https://github.com/tc39/test262/blob/main/test/language/directive-prologue/func-decl-final-runtime.js#L5-L6

Thanks

[16:32:20.0279] <jasew>
 * Hello 262!
Boa was interested in running tests against just a specific version. Such as ES5 or ES2015 etc. Is there an idiomatic way of doing this? like checking out a branch or parsing the frontmatter for tags like this: 
https://github.com/tc39/test262/blob/main/test/language/directive-prologue/func-decl-final-runtime.js#L5-L6
There is a Rust harness here: https://github.com/boa-dev/boa/tree/main/boa_tester

Thanks

[16:41:48.0346] <ptomato>
maybe one of the old-timers knows more, but I don't think there's a particular branch or tag that corresponds to a particular ES edition - you might be able to find a point in time where all features in that edition were covered, but there would still be other tests present for things that were only stage 3 at the time

[16:42:23.0743] <ptomato>
off the top of my head, your best avenue might be to keep a list of feature flags to include and exclude for a particular edition

[16:42:58.0498] <jasew>
ok thanks

[16:43:25.0250] <jasew>
What are those frontmatter tags used for? https://github.com/tc39/test262/blob/main/test/language/directive-prologue/func-decl-final-runtime.js#L5-L6

[16:53:51.0426] <ptomato>
es5id is deprecated, it's a section number in the ES5 document (which doesn't tell you much useful information these days)

[16:54:29.0294] <ptomato>
the esid is the name of the HTML anchor corresponding to the section in the living spec document


2023-03-17
[16:46:07.0275] <ptomato>
hi fellow maintainers, I made some slides for the funding announcement and I thought I'd drop them here in case you have any feedback, before I attach them to the agenda: http://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2023-03/

[16:52:20.0226] <ptomato>
I'll add the item to the agenda but attach the slides Monday to give everyone a chance to look at them


2023-03-22
[11:02:53.0325] <jugglinmike>
jasew: I don't have any solutions for you, but I can provide some more context: https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/569 (I guess I'm one of the "old-timers")


2023-03-24
[15:37:35.0402] <ljharb>
would love a stamp on https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3803 so i can land it


2023-03-27
[13:25:31.0139] <shu>
can i get a quick stamp on https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3805 so i can add some staging tests?

[13:28:02.0037] <Richard Gibson>
done

[13:30:29.0132] <shu>
ta


2023-03-28
[17:06:53.0661] <shu>
ljharb: how do i override the linter requirements for merging https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3806?

[17:07:19.0706] <shu>
since part of the point of `staging/` is so that they don't have frontmatter requirements

[17:07:59.0673] <ljharb>
ooh hm

[17:08:04.0570] <ljharb>
I’ll look into that tonight

[17:08:34.0193] <shu>
in the meantime what do you suggest? is the repo set up such that it'll prohibit my pushing these directly to main?

[17:09:26.0948] <ljharb>
i believe so

[17:09:29.0188] <shu>
well actually it'll be easiest for me to just add a small description

[17:09:36.0063] <shu>
let's see what other requirements it cares about...

[17:09:46.0471] <ljharb>
i think one of the folks in the maintainers group can merge the pr in the meantime tho 

[17:09:58.0099] <shu>
ah that may be best

[17:09:59.0855] <ljharb>
I’d jump on it now but I’m driving :-)

[17:10:08.0722] <shu>
np, don't respond if you're driving!!

[18:50:56.0787] <jugglinmike>
Hey folks, I won't be able to make this week's meeting


2023-03-29
[08:47:11.0439] <ptomato (unavailable through 03-28)>
today it was just Richard and me - we didn't have much to update, as it seems like the past 3 weeks went by really quickly with the TC39 plenary

[08:50:47.0585] <ptomato (unavailable through 03-28)>
one thing we talked about - I assume people are OK with Ms2ger and I continuing to use our review privileges to review tests with non-Google funding after the Google contract ends, but wanted to hear concerns if there are any

[09:46:34.0728] <ljharb>
y’all are in the maintainers group, the source of your funding shouldn’t matter

