2024-07-03
[08:08:20.0111] <ptomato>
anyone joining maintainers meeting today?

[08:15:49.0404] <Ms2ger>
I can if anyone else is ðŸ˜…

[14:59:32.0448] <ljharb>
(i couldn't make it today)

[15:22:09.0376] <ptomato>
we didn't have much to discuss. just triaged PRs


2024-07-07
[16:49:18.0530] <bakkot>
could I ask for https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3994 to get merged? proposal has been at stage 3 for a while

[16:49:42.0091] <bakkot>
I have some followups but I'll send them as their own PRs so they can be reviewed independently


2024-07-08
[21:56:24.0415] <ljharb>
it needs a rebase but the conflict shouldn't be tricky; i can take care of it tomorrow if nobody objects by then


2024-07-12
[10:38:12.0197] <JaseW>
Are Test262 people able to help with this? https://github.com/boa-dev/boa/issues/3431#issuecomment-2226049270

[10:41:38.0027] <ptomato>
can we get in touch with Brian? I haven't had any response on PRs to those repos, but I haven't yet tried contacting Brian directly

[10:42:20.0998] <ptomato>
I've put it on our meeting agenda for next time

[10:43:16.0806] <JaseW>
Thank you
CC canadahonk 

[10:43:48.0256] <JaseW>
* Thank youâ€¨CC canadahonk& linusg 

[11:19:12.0047] <JaseW>
> <@pchimento:igalia.com> can we get in touch with Brian? I haven't had any response on PRs to those repos, but I haven't yet tried contacting Brian directly

I can reach out to Brian in the meantime

