2024-11-05
[15:11:05.0806] <ptomato>
the maintainers meeting is coming up tomorrow - I won't be able to make it

[15:12:28.0446] <ptomato>
Anyone else up for chairing/taking notes?

[15:12:48.0942] <ptomato>
(I received regrets from Ioanna as well, btw)


2024-11-06
[00:03:13.0161] <ljharb>
i'm in ireland for nodeconf this week, so i won't make it either


2024-11-07
[13:18:19.0887] <ptomato>
quick stamp on https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4320, anyone?


2024-11-14
[22:01:04.0210] <Boshen Chen>
Hi All, my name is Boshen and is the creator of Oxc (https://oxc.rs). We run test262 rigorously for our parser, transformer, minifier etc.

I'm interested in participating and helping out resolving issues, but don't know the standard procedure yet.

[22:07:43.0102] <Boshen Chen>
For example, I found numerous issues on https://github.com/tc39/test262/blob/main/test/language/import/import-attributes/json-invalid.js having an parse error: https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/4124

I'd like to help out and resolve this issue, but don't know how to continue.

[10:28:07.0220] <ptomato>
welcome!

[10:28:22.0893] <ptomato>
#4124 is quite a difficult one to understand; I barely understand it myself ðŸ˜…

[10:29:26.0033] <ptomato>
we talked it through in a call and came up with the solution in the last comment there. so the next step would be to open a PR implementing those suggestions


2024-11-25
[14:39:10.0376] <Michael Ficarra>
Does someone have the time to review https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4326 before the upcoming meeting? I'm going to be asking for Stage 3 and it'd be nice to have another set of eyes on it other than anba's and mine.

[14:56:53.0991] <ptomato>
I probably do not. we do have the maintainers call coming up on Wednesday so we can bring it up then. FWIW looks like Jordan also checked the results, if not reviewed it


2024-11-26
[11:25:34.0929] <ljharb>
i will try to review it before plenary by implementing the changes and tests in my polyfill, assuming i can find the time


2024-11-27
[00:32:22.0145] <ljharb>
i'll do my best to be at the meeting tomorrow, but if i don't make it just lmk what yall need from me :-)

[08:08:19.0717] <ptomato>
I may be the only other one here and I have to leave early due to a conflict anyway. so maybe we should cancel

[08:09:10.0964] <ptomato>
the agenda item I wanted to discuss is: are we happy with landing Ms2ger ðŸ‡§ðŸ‡ª's work on automated import of SpiderMonkey tests, https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4106

[08:09:31.0966] <ptomato>
(I am)

[08:10:21.0753] <ptomato>
could others weigh in here so we don't have to wait until next meeting?

