[
{"content":{"body":"It feels like it would be appropriate to do a presentation at the March meeting to get the committee's temperature again, and finally resolve the topic token issue, in anticipation of asking for Stage 3 at probably the following meeting after that. Does this sound good to everyone, or do we still have concerns?","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"It feels like it would be appropriate to do a presentation at the March meeting to get the committee's temperature again, and finally resolve the topic token issue, in anticipation of asking for Stage 3 at probably the following meeting after that. Does this sound good to everyone, or do we still have concerns?"},"ts":1644003335120,"senderName":"TabAtkins","senderId":"@tabatkins:matrix.org","id":"$bHt9Et46I7lfDVDtoXpRgn6V0uvsfcrQLAlA7qbRzOY"}
]