[
{"content":{"body":"hello everyone, here is a draft of what we intend to present next week regarding import attributes, following up on recent conversations: https://gist.github.com/peetklecha/a55532165dbd4905aa91bbe59e8b1001","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"hello everyone, here is a draft of what we intend to present next week regarding import attributes, following up on recent conversations: https://gist.github.com/peetklecha/a55532165dbd4905aa91bbe59e8b1001"},"ts":1674161988316,"senderName":"peetk","senderId":"@peetk:matrix.org","id":"$rA0AxfF90i9JmkpEokENrtMS7LfgYCyZGYjc82oj02k"},
{"content":{"body":"we would really appreciate input before sharing this more widely","msgtype":"m.text","org.matrix.msc1767.text":"we would really appreciate input before sharing this more widely"},"ts":1674162000333,"senderName":"peetk","senderId":"@peetk:matrix.org","id":"$QELt4DiSI2SLkOZ_NcWgnTPEDnopCv5J49P3RiyOh9o"},
{"content":{"body":"I missed the last few module calls; is this a good summary of what people were thinking there?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1674162899775,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$A7qp3smnjbSAdtsBh_5TPHKdaG3-v3NbRD94O_Yek50"},
{"content":{"body":"a conclusion in March, or in January?","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1674167105684,"senderName":"ljharb","senderId":"@ljharb:matrix.org","id":"$b0oUihMzCpeAlKYcO1LPpnWgk1uJUxi_YLnf5DlzsT4"},
{"content":{"body":"We're going to work on a PR to the import assertions repo, but I don't think we have enough time to get consensus on it this meeting (the PR should be up already to achieve that)","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1674167150670,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$usEyJpZjM0UQuPNuTac2jKNlLqEw6qBz1Fu4FjIjwnE"},
{"content":{"body":"so the proposal is to sort of have this two month period to continue working it out, hoping to get consensus on some kind of change to import assertions by March","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1674167178023,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$BRI1MZmCLkXG9M_Xd7b6WFhhEs2H4oXGNRrgBbeMK4Q"},
{"content":{"body":"and the \"conclusion\" from this meeting would be \"please hold on, implementers\"","msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1674167190796,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$rmgEcf6r_b0VbHqt_Gibyxg7Z8jfJkIxyRrdfBYF_20"},
{"content":{"body":" * We're going to work on a PR to the import assertions repo, but I don't think we have enough time to get consensus on it this meeting (the PR should be up already to achieve that)","m.new_content":{"body":"We're going to work on a PR to the import assertions repo, but I don't think we have enough time to get consensus on it this meeting (the PR should be up already to achieve that)","msgtype":"m.text"},"m.relates_to":{"event_id":"$usEyJpZjM0UQuPNuTac2jKNlLqEw6qBz1Fu4FjIjwnE","rel_type":"m.replace"},"msgtype":"m.text"},"ts":1674167205695,"senderName":"littledan","senderId":"@littledan:matrix.org","id":"$7FXUSqKVQaSbad2qTEMnkac9ddbjuxXbFiSOGJmmYN4"}
]