2024-12-16
[14:29:39.0489] <Rob Palmer>
Sup

[15:08:24.0154] <Ben (medical leave)>
Hey, Iâ€™m out on medical leave until at least January 3rd, and am only checking matrix sporadically


2024-12-17
[20:11:04.0396] <sffc>
Hi, everyone! Thanks Chris for making this room! I've been in a lot of DMs and other different communication channels with different subsets of people regarding the Decimal and Measure proposals, so I thought we would benefit from a single forum to talk and plan.

[20:13:46.0529] <sffc>
I had a good conversation with nicolo-ribaudo after the session I hosted in the December plenary. Basically, I would really like to see these proposals advance together as soon as possible. It might not seem like it, but I feel we are the closest we've been to getting a proposal that everyone on the committee is happy about.

[20:14:52.0919] <sffc>
It looks from the outside that we've been going in circles, but I describe it more as a helix: when we go back to the shape of a proposal we've had before, we arrive there with more stakeholders and a much more foolproof specification and understanding of the problem space.

[01:25:48.0291] <Jesse>
thanks for setting up this room! I think it makes sense to have a common place to discuss

[01:26:19.0960] <Jesse>
I also agree that what appears to be circular motion is actually progress

[01:27:14.0063] <Jesse>
having measure & decimal move together makes a lot of sense

[01:31:51.0779] <Jesse>
we'll be presenting a vision in February that unifies all these threads

[04:13:47.0774] <eemeli>
For Measure, this may also be relevant: https://github.com/mozilla/explainers/blob/main/amount.md

That document also links to some relevant prior art & previous discussions.

[10:57:57.0827] <littledan>
I'm very happy to hear about this progress, and excited to learn more

[10:59:33.0069] <sffc>
> <@jesse:igalia.com> we'll be presenting a vision in February that unifies all these threads

Part of the goal of this room is to communicate earlier and more often so we aren't surprised by presentations and what everyone else is working on. So I encourage you to share more information on what you are planning to present in February

[11:00:19.0183] <littledan>
sffc: When you say that you imagine Decimal and Measure advancing together, which version of Decimal do you have in your head?

[11:13:27.0690] <sffc>
I'd like to see something based on the "bonus slide" in my November presentation. Basically a form of hybrid solution. I expect lots of bikeshedding to follow

[11:26:07.0352] <littledan>
great, so, like, which one?

[11:27:08.0576] <littledan>
this? https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Uzrf-IwPrljF2BhCbCWuwQxlgGSm_bcd3FRbPO3Yrio/edit#slide=id.g31a6e89a509_0_8

[11:28:15.0309] <littledan>
do you want to propose two decimal types (with and without quanta)?

[11:39:29.0734] <littledan>
bikeshedding is good. I'm curious what you'd change vs the current proposal (besides advancing Measure)

