2025-04-07
[09:02:15.0546] <eemeli>
I see that there's a Decimal.Amount item on the agenda. Would it be possible to get a reply from sffc or Jesse to [this question](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-measure/issues/26#issuecomment-2759531000) I left on the issue two weeks ago?

[09:03:46.0492] <Jesse>
yes, I'll take a look -- thanks!


2025-04-09
[07:03:13.0310] <Jesse>
if you're interested, you're welcome to take a look at the current slides for the decimal update next week: https://notes.igalia.com/p/tc39-2025-04-decimal-intl-integration#/

[07:04:21.0629] <Jesse>
I've tried to incorporate feedback on our recent discussions here and present a version of Decimal.Amount that I think warrants discussion in plenary

[07:08:34.0338] <Jesse>
eemeli: are you happy with N-ic's response to the question?

[08:43:33.0169] <sffc>
I think
1. We should spend more time overall on motivation and less on the API
2. Discuss how this design addresses committee feedback from February
3. We should probably change "withSignificantDigits" to "toAmount" to address Eemeli's feedback)

[08:47:21.0619] <Jesse>
agree -- I can add a bit to the slides

