2024-03-27
[10:10:25.0723] <yulia>
I have a pull request with the notes, do we want to wait on publishing that or should I go ahead?

[10:15:57.0466] <Chris de Almeida>
I see a PR for a readme, but not meeting notes

[10:16:35.0467] <yulia>
I haven't posted it yet, because I wanted to check if anyone objected first

[10:16:50.0204] <yulia>
because i think it is publically visible if I post notes?

[10:17:06.0624] <yulia>
We didn't discuss how we want to do notes so i didn't feel right making it public without an explicit ok

[10:27:21.0169] <Chris de Almeida>
right, it would be public. I think a PR is good but also ok to wait for quorum/next meeting to decide how to proceed.  I expect if there are any concerns, it would be about some particular content of the notes and that could be addressed via PR

[10:27:41.0743] <yulia>
sounds good, I will wait on it

[10:38:23.0859] <Chris de Almeida>
with those meeting notes, if there could be a link to the slide deck, that would be great

[10:38:44.0900] <Chris de Almeida>
also, congrats on first TG5 meeting!  ðŸŽ‰

[12:30:19.0283] <Michael Ficarra>
I believe we're obligated to post any notes we take, as part of the "entity list" issue, and possibly Ecma bylaws


2024-03-28
[01:47:17.0383] <yulia>
the plan is to post the notes, but do people want to have a period of time to review them before we do so?

[03:59:01.0026] <nicolo-ribaudo>
I think it's fine to just publish them immediately, given that they aren't a full transcript anyway. In TG4 we even just link to the "live doc" that we use to take notes in the public calendar.

[07:45:33.0408] <Chris de Almeida>
a PR is good enough, I think.  that's all we do in TG3.  TG2 publishes the notes directly to `main` I think.  ðŸ˜®

[09:37:42.0114] <yulia>
ok

[15:08:10.0351] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/main/2024/04.md#agenda-items

[15:08:23.0042] <Chris de Almeida>
Task Groups report to the TC at each meeting. There is a placeholder agenda item there for TG5. The convenors are naturally a good choice for who is presenting, but it's not a requirement. And the 5m timebox is also just a placeholder.

