2025-01-21
[14:22:00.0299] <Aki>
Mikhail Barash: would it make sense to invite anyone from w3c (specifically the i18n wg) to participate in the workshop in feb?

[14:47:31.0864] <Mikhail Barash>
Yes, definitely! ğŸ˜€


2025-01-23
[14:03:44.0863] <Mikhail Barash>
Next TG5 meeting will be held on **Wednesday 29th of January**. Agenda: https://github.com/tc39/tg5/blob/main/agendas/2025/2025-01-29.md


2025-01-29
[06:03:28.0217] <Mikhail Barash>
Reminder: TG5 meeting in 57 minutes

[08:57:09.0603] <Michael Ficarra>
oops, I forgot about it ğŸ™

