2023-08-09
[06:59:00.0506] <Chris de Almeida>
üì¢ reminder we have our EMEA-friendly meeting today/tomorrow:

```
| US / Central | 12:00 Wednesday |
|          UTC | 17:00 Wednesday |
|        China | 01:00 Thursday  |
```

[07:25:23.0539] <Chris de Almeida>
this will be the first instance where we are not mostly going through previous agenda items to see if they are still relevant to the group

we have a sizable [backlog of items](https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/agendas/backlog.md) but nothing specifically called out to be discussed today

is there anything in particular folks want to tackle first?  perhaps more importantly, is there anything time-sensitive that we need to discuss sooner rather than later?

[08:10:10.0514] <Jack Works>
sorry I feel not good so I may not come today. Hope there is a meeting note I can see the discussion later! (btw it's also midnight for me)

[08:13:36.0792] <Michael Ficarra>
if I had to choose a priority topic, I would pick getting the vulnerability disclosure process set up and publicly documented

[08:17:52.0573] <Michael Ficarra>
or maybe reviewing in-progress proposals to see which ones we would recommend for security review/sign-off by TG3 participants

[08:18:14.0322] <Chris de Almeida>
that's top of mind for me as well!  I wanted to defer to the group rather than make a unilateral decision, so I'm happy with that (but also open to anything else, especially if timely)

[08:20:21.0653] <Chris de Almeida>
> or maybe reviewing in-progress proposals to see which ones we would recommend for security review/sign-off by TG3 participants

also a good option.  specifically, shared structs proposal review is in the backlog (though it doesn't have to be that one).  

there is also the meta-issue on the topic of security reviews for proposals from a process perspective

[08:43:32.0789] <Michael Ficarra>
yeah, though that's something we'll need to involve TG1 in once we have some preferences

[11:12:15.0685] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/tg3/pull/7/files

‚òùÔ∏èPR for today's meeting notes

[12:10:17.0440] <Kris Kowal>
I can report back early that Agoric is not interested in evaluating the private vulnerability disclosure process in Github because it would be redundant with our bug bounty channel.

[12:10:42.0083] <Kris Kowal>
So I regret that I will not be conducting that experiment with our assets.

[14:11:31.0214] <Chris de Almeida>
just pushed a commit that tracks items for reporting to TG1, so we are not having to dig through meeting notes after the fact for reporting at plenary


2023-08-22
[13:52:43.0208] <Mathieu Hofman>
To make sure I have my calendar right, tonight is the APAC friendly time of TG3, right?

[13:53:07.0538] <Chris de Almeida>
üì¢ reminder we have our APAC-friendly meeting today/tomorrow:

```
| US / Central | 20:00 Tuesday   |
|          UTC | 01:00 Wednesday |
|        China | 09:00 Wednesday |
```

[15:31:54.0153] <Michael Ficarra>
do we have an agenda?

[15:47:54.0561] <Chris de Almeida>
perhaps discussing how we want to set agendae for future meetings üòÖ

[15:48:53.0605] <Chris de Almeida>
also perhaps picking apart a model VD policy, which is, as I recall, one aspect of where we left off from last meeting.  or anything else is fair game as well


2023-08-31
[09:36:09.0832] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/tg3/pull/8/files
‚òùÔ∏èPR for last meeting notes

