2023-11-01
[12:34:17.0381] <Chris de Almeida>
`@room` please add any agenda topics you have for next week's meeting: https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2023/2023-11-08.md#agenda


2023-11-08
[09:52:51.0796] <Chris de Almeida>
meeting starting shortly

[10:31:46.0009] <dveditz>
Chris de Almeida: The link you pasted in the mtg chat was to the policy. I was wondering where to find that "issue from SYG" that objected to the wording. 

[10:33:32.0522] <dveditz>
(maybe what was up on the screen _was_ the policy -- I wasn't able to read it. but it seemed like there must have been email or an issue or something with the objection)

[12:14:32.0930] <Chris de Almeida>
oh, that was the meeting notes. one sec

[12:14:56.0681] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/main/meetings/2023-09/september-26.md#tc39-tg3-status-report

[12:15:23.0639] <Chris de Almeida>
dveditz: 

[13:32:40.0996] <dveditz>
thanks! that's what I was looking for.

[13:57:20.0800] <dveditz>
> How do you see this being compared to the existing CVE process that certainly all the browser implementations of JavaScript already are very involved in?

CVE is a -naming- process, not a "vulnerability handling" process. If there is a spec problem that is leading to vulnerabilities in implementations we (TC39) can certainly get  CVE to help coordinate a response if it helps. If it's not affecting any implementations (yet?) then a CVE may not be needed: just fix the spec before anyone has a chance to implement the footgun.

[13:59:47.0848] <dveditz>
Mitre has no problem assigning CVEs to "spec problems". The [TLS "POODLE" flaw](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POODLE) was CVE-2014-3566. The recent [HTTP/2 Rapid Reset](https://blog.cloudflare.com/technical-breakdown-http2-rapid-reset-ddos-attack/) protocol flaw was CVE-2023-44487 

[14:02:51.0394] <dveditz>
technically, CVE naming rules say all the independent implementation fixes should have each gotten a separate CVE saying "the fix for CVE-2023-44487 in <myserver>"

[14:03:04.0423] <dveditz>
but that's not helpful and no one did that that I see


2023-11-09
[16:08:07.0002] <dveditz>
one possible alternate term, if we need it, is to talk about a "security flaw" (problem? issue?) in the spec rather than a "vulnerability" if people are too hung up on that word. 

[20:48:24.0283] <dveditz>
It's possible the language won't have "vulnerabilities" in the way those protocols did. If not, great! If the worst we find or get reported are on the level of the "Security Considerations" sections of W3C and IETF specs that's fine. We wouldn't call those "vulnerabilities", and it's still a benefit to give guidance to people about how to use the features defined in a specification safely.

[05:29:35.0993] <Chris de Almeida>
that's helpful information and perspective. thanks Dan!

[05:30:45.0742] <Chris de Almeida>
ultimately, while I find nothing wrong with the terms we currently use in the document, I understand if some folks prefer to use a more general term both for semantics and to be inclusive of a broader scope of issues where 'vulnerability' may not be very accurate

[05:31:50.0033] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/tg3/pull/14/files

[05:32:28.0854] <Chris de Almeida>
I've drafted this PR to update the policy, and I'm happy with it.  it addresses the feedback we received and doesn't change the substance of the policy at all

[05:33:36.0096] <dveditz>
 I don't have a problem with "vulnerability" either, but we may also deal with security issues in specs that don't rise to that level 

[05:35:02.0296] <Chris de Almeida>
definitely, and most likely more often 

[05:35:04.0852] <dveditz>
R+ on the PR. That works nicely 

[08:33:42.0704] <ljharb>
maybe we could find another abbreviation besides “VD” tho

[09:14:21.0763] <Chris de Almeida>
> <@ljharb:matrix.org> maybe we could find another abbreviation besides “VD” tho

there's VDP, but that refers to a 'program' which is something different

[09:14:34.0708] <Chris de Almeida>
point taken though, I might as well change the commit message 

[09:14:53.0905] <ljharb>
just “vuln disclosure” and leave it long?

[09:18:29.0024] <Chris de Almeida>
updated

[09:51:06.0220] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/.github/blob/main/SECURITY.md

alright the real one is live ☝️

the content is the same as what merged to the TG3 repo, except for updating the `Reporting to TC39` section to add the relevant links to GH reporting pages.  I'll delete the draft version from the TG3 repo; further changes can happen via issues/PRs in the `.github` repo

[10:04:50.0865] <Chris de Almeida>
also on the TG3 repo: 
- meeting notes from yesterday are up
- agenda for next meeting is up (please add topics)
- plenary report content is up (not much to report; please add anything missing)


2023-11-17
[12:50:59.0455] <Chris de Almeida>
Michael Ficarra: are you up for presenting on our behalf at plenary? 

[12:58:57.0019] <Michael Ficarra>
I haven't been able to attend the last few meetings, so you should probably ask someone else

[13:00:19.0284] <Chris de Almeida>
any volunteers?  our only updates are the publication of the vulnerability disclosure policy (which incorporated the feedback from previous plenary) and enabling GH private vulnerability reporting for the org

[13:00:43.0918] <Chris de Almeida>
I'll pencil myself in for now

