2023-09-07
[15:04:47.0954] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2023/2023-09-13.md#agenda

per our last meeting, the group agreed that it would be helpful to have a set agenda in advance of meetings.  to that end, I have updated the template and created the md for next week's meeting.

**next week's meeting is our last meeting before plenary**

we have an agenda but feel free to add to it.  that said, we will want to prioritize the vulnerability disclosure policy topic because it directly relates to our report to TG1.  (the report content is also on the agenda for us to update/review and will be a priority topic as well.)

there is a slight change in format in the agenda/notes template, but notably we are still using one `.md` file for both the agenda and the meeting notes, and they continue to live at `tg3/meetings/notes`.

[15:05:20.0051] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2023/2023-09-13.md#agenda

per our last meeting, the group agreed that it would be helpful to have a set agenda in advance of meetings.  to that end, I have updated the template and created the md for next week's meeting.  (link above ‚òùÔ∏è)

**next week's meeting is our last meeting before plenary**

we have an agenda but feel free to add to it.  that said, we will want to prioritize the vulnerability disclosure policy topic because it directly relates to our report to TG1.  (the report content is also on the agenda for us to update/review and will be a priority topic as well.)

there is a slight change in format in the agenda/notes template, but notably we are still using one `.md` file for both the agenda and the meeting notes, and they continue to live at `tg3/meetings/notes`.

[15:06:32.0484] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2023/2023-09-13.md#agenda

per our last meeting, the group agreed that it would be helpful to have a set agenda in advance of meetings.  to that end, I have updated the template and created the md for next week's meeting.  (link above ‚òùÔ∏è)

**‚ö†Ô∏è next week's meeting is our last meeting before plenary**

we have an agenda but feel free to add to it.  that said, we will want to prioritize the vulnerability disclosure policy topic because it directly relates to our report to TG1.  (the report content is also on the agenda for us to update/review and will be a priority topic as well.)

there is a slight change in format in the agenda/notes template, but notably we are still using one `.md` file for both the agenda and the meeting notes, and they continue to live at `tg3/meetings/notes`.

[15:15:00.0307] <dveditz>
Thanks for the reminder

[15:15:29.0547] <dveditz>
 * Thanks for the reminder and agenda link

[15:21:23.0323] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/meetings/notes/2023/2023-09-13.md#agenda

per our last meeting, the group agreed that it would be helpful to have a set agenda in advance of meetings.  to that end, I have updated the template and created the md for next week's meeting.  (link above ‚òùÔ∏è)

**‚ö†Ô∏è next week's meeting is our last meeting before plenary**

we have an agenda but feel free to add to it.  that said, we will want to prioritize the vulnerability disclosure policy topic because it directly relates to our report to TG1.  (the report content is also on the agenda for us to update/review and will be a priority topic as well.)

there is a slight change in format in the agenda/notes template, but notably we are still using one `.md` file for both the agenda and the meeting notes, and they continue to live at `/meetings/notes`.


2023-09-13
[07:25:35.0228] <Chris de Almeida>
üì¢ reminder we have our EMEA-friendly meeting today/tomorrow:

```
| US / Central | 12:00 Wednesday |
|          UTC | 17:00 Wednesday |
|        China | 01:00 Thursday  |
```

[07:25:49.0104] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/tg3/blob/main/docs/draft-SECURITY.md

[07:27:07.0568] <Chris de Almeida>
‚òùÔ∏è draft vuln reporting doc.  we will discuss at meeting, but feedback welcome now

[10:05:05.0614] <Mathieu Hofman>
"waiting to be let in"

[10:06:08.0959] <Michael Ficarra>
so... am I in the wrong room or something?

[14:31:52.0220] <Chris de Almeida>
https://github.com/tc39/tg3/commit/2325f793ff5b5584b7dafc310ffe9c91e0753b66

meeting notes and updates to vuln policy ‚òùÔ∏è

[14:32:03.0926] <Chris de Almeida>
my `checkout -b` command failed and I didn't notice so I accidentally pushed to `main`, so no PR for this one

[14:33:26.0110] <Chris de Almeida>
there should be no surprises in here, save for one:  I added a column to the projects list to show browsers.  sec researchers and others may know the browser, but not know the name of the JS engine

[14:42:27.0695] <Chris de Almeida>
also: google meet meeting is now set to `Open` so presumably nobody should need to be admitted henceforth

[14:49:56.0353] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://github.com/tc39/tg3/commit/9f59d42f1c536e0835fe5ed9cb7a0ab91e09c227

meeting notes and updates to vuln policy ‚òùÔ∏è

[14:51:18.0289] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://github.com/tc39/tg3/commit/95b95c4bb8a532c485528645bb24d6b42f294c1e

meeting notes and updates to vuln policy ‚òùÔ∏è


2023-09-25
[12:19:39.0678] <Chris de Almeida>
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FSukmXtkL0rXqkmgScidr7tZzP9jagxxIyHQllxGWSY/edit?usp=sharing

slides for plenary update Michael Ficarra 

[12:21:04.0800] <Chris de Almeida>
the only thing I didn't include was the "where to add links to the policy".  I think we can handle that offline/async -- we can always add it where it's missing and we can always remove if we added it somewhere erroneously.  (low stakes)

[12:21:30.0659] <Chris de Almeida>
slot is currently 10 minutes which I think is fine, but let me know if you want to extend


2023-09-26
[23:41:22.0360] <freddy>
nit for slide 6.
> "Responsible vulnerability disclosure policy means good InfoSec, which means..."

1. I think what you refer to is actually called "good OpSec" :)
2. People in security prefer "coordinated disclosure" rather than the false dichotomy of responsible/irresponsible

[23:42:07.0016] <ljharb>
i don't think it's false :-)

[23:42:15.0702] <ljharb>
but i've indeed started using both terms

[23:42:23.0468] <ljharb>
 * but i've indeed started using both terms, like `responsible/coordinated disclosure`

[23:42:45.0048] <freddy>
slide 8, last bullet point: "If you are unable to determine whether the. vulnerability is implementation-specific"....I'd personally recommend that people report to both, an implementation and the standards body.

[23:43:21.0758] <freddy>
I know some of this is a matter of opinion. I appreciate the work on the policy and these slides. If the group had reached consensus on these terms, I'm not gonna fight it.

[23:43:45.0933] <ljharb>
(zero pushback from me ftr on including the term "coordinated", just on avoiding the term "responsible")

