2025-10-02
[13:23:17.0127] <kriskowal>
I’ve added @dminor ’s request to discuss capture stack trace at the next meeting.

[13:23:30.0169] <kriskowal>
* I’ve added dminor ’s request to discuss capture stack trace at the next meeting.

[13:24:04.0263] <kriskowal>
And I’m socializing that with the Agoric folks. Also ping for ljharb 

[13:24:34.0148] <ljharb>
next week i should be there; the following week i'll be at jsconf tho


2025-10-03
[08:54:07.0146] <dminor>
Thank you for making time for me. I've put together a pull request here: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-capturestacktrace/pull/10, that could serve as a starting point for the conversation. I'll also try to socialize this with the V8 and JSC teams prior to the next meeting.

