2026-02-04
[10:01:36.0291] <Chris de Almeida>
ðŸ‘€

[10:14:15.0290] <ljharb>
(i'm out this week; at an offsite)


2026-02-09
[14:09:18.0307] <Justin Ridgewell>
Mathieu Hofman: We really need to work on Promise security soon: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-defer-import-eval/pull/77

[14:18:47.0636] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Happy to present that PR this Wed if there is interest

[15:12:01.0610] <Mathieu Hofman>
I really haven't had time to spend on TC39 in the past couple months. I can try to make it to TG3 this Wednesday if both Justin Ridgewell and nicolo-ribaudo can be there. In particular the problem the PR above tries to solve, would it be solved by what I presented a few plenaries ago? 


2026-02-10
[16:33:09.0248] <Justin Ridgewell>
I should be able to make it.

[16:37:25.0435] <Justin Ridgewell>
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-native-promise-adoption would solve this, itâ€™s basically implementing it for this specific case

[06:02:03.0449] <dminor>
I've mentioned this to Matthew Gaudet who's also interested in promise security, he'll hopefully be able to attend. I may be able to drop in for the second part of the meeting, I have a conflict at the beginning.


2026-02-11
[08:56:02.0574] <mgaudet>
(I plan on attending; promise security is relevant to my interests. I'm also planning on presenting at plenary next time, basically this document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vv3wATkfPaRs_pJnAlPqoVHIXq4fdslpgUny7zyUnnU/edit?usp=sharing) 

[09:34:44.0266] <ljharb>
i have a standing conflict for the first ~15m of TG3 now, so i'll be late


2026-02-18
[10:10:09.0279] <kriskowal>
ljharb if youâ€™re able to join after your conflict, in 5min, weâ€™ve got ZB on the line to discuss isTemplateObject

[10:10:44.0057] <ljharb>
i'll join asap, might be slightly more than 5m tho

