2022-06-07
[06:15:25.0845] <Surma>
I feel like the biggest open question is whether module blocks are cached by source position or not. I think it might be most efficient to just have an incubator call about this. Anyone not okay with that? And how do I schedule one officially? ðŸ˜…

[06:15:26.0545] <Surma>
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-js-module-blocks/issues/45

[06:17:14.0183] <Jack Works>
Isn t my `unique` solution good enough? ðŸ˜‚

[06:17:50.0733] <Surma>
Well, Iâ€™m kinda changing my opinion that all module blocks should be cached by source position

[06:18:26.0233] <Surma>
so that would make that extra syntax moot ðŸ˜…

[06:18:44.0052] <Surma>
I hope we can avoid additional syntax

[08:09:15.0238] <ljharb>
an incubator call would be good. to have one, during plenary when incubator call chartering happens, we'd add module blocks. ping shu to give him a heads up

[09:23:33.0248] <Kris Kowal>
Surma: Youâ€™re also welcome at the SES Strategy meetings at 10am Pacific. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FZ95-NZIQE9fw3A8Sgcz2BKep6MlC_Kng0dlf1ehabQ/edit#heading=h.f8mfwudm59mq

[09:24:35.0060] <Kris Kowal>
Weâ€™re stepping up spec work on Compartments and it would be good to get in sync.

[09:39:24.0251] <Jack Works>
> <@kriskowal:matrix.org> Surma: Youâ€™re also welcome at the SES Strategy meetings at 10am Pacific. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FZ95-NZIQE9fw3A8Sgcz2BKep6MlC_Kng0dlf1ehabQ/edit#heading=h.f8mfwudm59mq

Is SES meeting still happen in the tc39 meetings week?

[09:41:10.0179] <Kris Kowal>
No SES meeting the week of plenary, ever. We also usually cancel the week after plenary to give folks a rest.


2022-06-22
[05:11:26.0953] <nicolo-ribaudo>
Surma I plan to review the proposal this week; do you still plan to include module function shorthands? Or should I ignore that part?

[05:19:58.0739] <Surma>
I don't think I'll include it in the mvp

[05:20:07.0828] <Surma>
Thanks for taking a look! Really appreciate it

