2023-06-23
[16:38:14.0096] <Chris de Almeida>
https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/boyykLYe

@room looking to convene TG3 next week.  please complete the above doodle.  keeping it short for now (30m slot), and this doodle isn't meant for recurring cadence.  rough agenda:

- chair(s) vacancy
- consideration of future meeting frequency and length
- review of previous agendae
- crafting of future agenda

[16:38:30.0712] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/boyykLYe

@room  looking to convene TG3 next week.  please complete the above doodle.  keeping it short for now (30m slot), and this doodle isn't meant for recurring cadence.  rough agenda:

- chair(s) vacancy
- consideration of future meeting frequency and length
- review of previous agendae
- crafting of future agenda

[16:38:37.0654] <Chris de Almeida>
 * https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/boyykLYe

@room looking to convene TG3 next week.  please complete the above doodle.  keeping it short for now (30m slot), and this doodle isn't meant for recurring cadence.  rough agenda:

- chair(s) vacancy
- consideration of future meeting frequency and length
- review of previous agendae
- crafting of future agenda


2023-06-24
[22:51:11.0127] <Jack Works>
if the time has been decided, it will be on the tc39 calendar right?


2023-06-26
[00:51:07.0954] <freddy>
I don't think Mozilla will be able to find someone on such short notice - from Saturday to Monday/Tuesday. The proposed times are quite late for me in Europe and I'll see if our delegate in US Pacific will be able to make it, but it's a bit short notice...

[05:40:15.0001] <Jack Works>
also too late for me, only 1 slot is ok to me, other slots are midnight 3~5 am

[09:59:43.0242] <Michael Ficarra>
Chris de Almeida: I don't see anything added to the calendar, and some of the proposed times are already starting to pass. Why the rush to get this meeting planned? We've already had a long wait since the last meeting, I'd rather give plenty of notice so we can get more attendance.

[10:33:11.0264] <Chris de Almeida>
I was going to create the calendar item today.  Doing it this week was the only realistic option to get folks together prior to plenary -- which is important if we want to confirm chair(s) appointment at plenary, which is a goal I was hoping we could achieve, as that was the blocker discussed from last plenary.

[10:34:46.0984] <Chris de Almeida>
I apologize for the short notice (and the lack of APAC-friendly times -- which is also something I wanted to discuss for future meetings).  I am hoping folks are still willing to meet and discuss, even if that includes punting some things to after plenary.

[10:46:01.0329] <Chris de Almeida>
Michael Ficarra: chipmorningstar Kris Kowal ljharb Mathieu Hofman 
the meeting is on the calendar now.  let me know if you want to be on the invite list and your preferred email if so

[10:57:15.0700] <ljharb>
i'd like to be, and you can use the same email i use for everything

[11:41:16.0654] <Kris Kowal>
Chris de Almeida: kris@agoric.com


2023-06-27
[00:04:15.0249] <freddy>
please also invite dveditz@mozilla.com

